The Double Mega Missionary Church



DAG HEWARD-MILLS

Parchment House





Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.

The Double Mega Missionary Church Copyright © 2016 Dag Heward-Mills First Edition published by Parchment House 2019

77Find out more about Dag Heward-Mills Healing Jesus Crusade

Write to: evangelist@daghewardmills.org Website: www.daghewardmills.org Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills Twitter: @EvangelistDag





EBOOK ISBN: 978-1-64329-222-9


All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Contents

CHAPTER 1: Twenty-Five Prophecies of the Double Mega Missionary Church

CHAPTER 2: I Will Build My Church!

CHAPTER 3: Church Growth is Warfare

CHAPTER 4: The Campaign for Church Growth

CHAPTER 5: All Campaigns Work Together for Good

CHAPTER 6: SSSHHABBIE SHEPHERDING MUUSSSTTT GO

CHAPTER 7: The “Soul Winning and Mission Consciousness” Campaign

CHAPTER 8: The “State of the Flock” Campaign

CHAPTER 9: The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign

CHAPTER 10: The “Hearing and Seeing” Campaign

CHAPTER 11: The “Honour the Prophet” Campaign

CHAPTER 12: The “Anti-Brutish” Campaign

CHAPTER 13: The “Bacenta, Basonta, Batenta Proliferation” Campaign

CHAPTER 14: The “Buildings” Campaign

CHAPTER 15: The “Intimate Counselling” Campaign

CHAPTER 16: The “Equipment and Technology” Campaign

CHAPTER 17: The “Shepherds’ Control” Campaign

CHAPTER 18: The “Multiplication” Campaign

CHAPTER 19: The “Uncles and Aunties” Campaign

CHAPTER 20: The “Understanding” Campaign

CHAPTER 21: The “Swollen Sunday” Campaign

CHAPTER 22: The “Sheep Seeking” Campaign

CHAPTER 23: The “Sunday Management” Campaign

CHAPTER 24: The “Testimony” Campaign

CHAPTER 25: The “Telepastoring” Campaign

CHAPTER 26: The “Tangerine” Campaign

CHAPTER 27: The “Gathering Bus” Campaign

CHAPTER 28: The “Organized Creative Arts” Campaign





CHAPTER 1




Twenty-Five Prophecies of the Double Mega Missionary Church




This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare;

1 Timothy 1:18

Through prophecy, you can fight a good fight. Through prophecy you can finish off the enemy! Through prophecy you can imagine what God has in store for you!

There is a more sure word of prophecy that will guarantee your future. Every pastor should believe in the twenty-five prophecies for church growth. These prophecies speak of the increase of God’s people. Do not think that these prophecies do not apply to you because you are not an Israelite. Remember what the scripture says: a Jew or an Israeli is someone who is a Jew at heart.

For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly; neither is that circumcision, which is outward in the flesh: BUT HE IS A JEW, WHICH IS ONE INWARDLY; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter; whose praise is not of men, but of God.

Romans 2:28-29

All the prophecies for Jews and Israelites apply to you directly. God has a master plan to multiply His people and increase them like a flock. God’s plan is that His people shall not be few and shall not be small. I want you to read every single one of these prophecies and believe that they apply to your life and ministry. Believe in them and you will see a great increase in your life. The prophecy you believe is the one that you will experience!

In the list coming up, you will see that the rise of certain kinds of people leads to great increase for the house of God. May you be one of the types of people that bring about church growth and the end-time harvest!

At certain times, God does certain things and every one is forced to behold the goodness and the greatness of God. This is the hour of the great mountain of the Lord’s house. This is the time for the great end-time church to be released. The glory of this latter house will be far greater than the glory of the former house.

Twenty-Five Prophecies for Church Growth

1. There shall be a rise of mountain-like churches.

And it shall come to pass in the last days, that THE MOUNTAIN OF THE LORD’S HOUSE SHALL BE ESTABLISHED IN THE TOP OF THE MOUNTAINS, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. And MANY PEOPLE SHALL GO AND SAY, COME YE, AND LET US GO UP TO THE MOUNTAIN OF THE LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.

Isaiah 2:2-3

But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and IT SHALL BE EXALTED ABOVE THE HILLS; AND PEOPLE SHALL FLOW UNTO IT.

And many nations shall come, and say, Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.

Micah 4:1-2

Such churches will tower above all other churches. There will be mega, mighty and powerful movements that cannot be stopped. These mountain-like churches will be great and mysterious waves of God’s power and glory. They will be difficult to understand and difficult to decipher. Just like a mountain is difficult to climb, these mountains will be difficult to explain.

These two wonderful scriptures prophesy church growth in great detail. They speak about Zion and Jerusalem. But we are the heavenly Jerusalem. We have come to Zion. We are fully aware of the spiritual location of where we stand. “But ye are come unto mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels, To the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect” (Hebrews 12:22-23).

The prophecy is that the Lord’s house will be established in the last days. There is no point in trying to establish something else. Let us try to align ourselves to this prophecy. I am sure you believe that the last days are upon us. God has declared that His house is what will be established in the last days. We are in the season of the church being established. We are not in a season of hotels, banks, businesses and other human institutions being established. There is no need to try to go against His word. This is the season that the double mega missionary church is going to work beautifully. This is the hour of visitation for the church.

The prophecy is that the Lord’s house will be exalted. God’s work will be lifted very high, above everything else. When you work for the church, you are working for something that will be very great. A political party will never be as great as the church. In my lifetime, I have seen car dealers go out of existence. I have seen banks collapse. I have seen political parties disappear and become non-existent. In the same period, I have seen the church march on and become greater and stronger in the land. You must accept the prophecy of church growth.

The prophecy is that many will come to the house of the Lord. Many people will come to God’s house in these last days. They will say, “Let us go to the house of the Lord and hear his word.” There is nothing clearer than this. God is going to build His church and many people will come to be blessed with the word of God from His church.

2. There shall be a rise of churches with many people and strong nations.

And the inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, Let us go speedily to pray before the Lord, and to seek the Lord of hosts: I will go also. Yea, MANY PEOPLE AND STRONG NATIONS SHALL COME TO SEEK THE LORD of hosts in Jerusalem, and to pray before the Lord. Thus saith the Lord of hosts; In those days it shall come to pass, that ten men shall take hold out of all languages of the nations, even shall take hold of the skirt of him that is a Jew, saying, We will go with you: for we have heard that God is with you.

Zechariah 8:21-23

There are many countries that are strong nations. It is difficult to win people from certain strong nations. These nations are closed to the gospel. Such nations will not give missionaries visas or entry permits. They will not allow missionaries to stay in their countries. In the last days, such nations will be conquered for Jesus. No nation will be too strong for the church.

You must expect many people to come to the double mega missionary church in the last days. The days of few people are over!

3. There shall be a rise of little ones. Many who are little ones will turn into thousands.

A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one a strong nation: I the Lord will hasten it in his time.

Isaiah 60:22

Ministry starts out with little ones. Teenagers who have churches are little ones. Many young people who start churches are little ones. But a little one shall become a thousand in this era of church growth. Today, you may be described as a little one. But a day is coming when everyone will recognize that a small one has become a strong nation. Small pastors will turn into double mega missionary pastors.

4. There shall be a rise of churches that shall not be few and churches that shall not be small.

And out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of them that make merry: and I WILL MULTIPLY THEM, AND THEY SHALL NOT BE FEW; I WILL ALSO GLORIFY THEM, AND THEY SHALL NOT BE SMALL. Their children also shall be as aforetime, and their congregation shall be established before me, and I will punish all that oppress them. And their nobles shall be of themselves, and their governor shall proceed from the midst of them; and I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach unto me: for who is this that engaged his heart to approach unto me? saith the Lord.

Jeremiah 30:19-21

In the last days, God will set aside the smallness that has beset many ministries. Many churches are too small for these last days. They will receive a great boost of the power of God. “I will multiply them and they shall not be few! I will also glorify them and they shall not be small!” This is God’s promise for you. Believe in these words and they shall come to pass practically! You will see the double mega missionary church.

God will multiply you. God will look at your congregation and say, “You are sixty. I will multiply you by ten,” and you will become six hundred. He will look at congregations that have ninety members and He will say, “I multiply you by five,” and they will suddenly become four hundred and fifty. He will look at congregations that have two hundred members and say, “I multiply you by ten,” and they will suddenly become two thousand! What a beautiful prophecy! You must meditate on this prophecy because it will happen practically in your life!

5. There shall be a rise of feeding pastors.

AND I WILL GIVE YOU PASTORS ACCORDING TO MINE HEART, WHICH SHALL FEED YOU WITH KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING. AND IT SHALL COME TO PASS, WHEN YE BE MULTIPLIED AND INCREASED IN THE LAND, in those days, saith the Lord, they shall say no more, The ark of the covenant of the Lord: neither shall it come to mind: neither shall they remember it; neither shall they visit it; neither shall that be done any more. At that time they shall call Jerusalem the throne of the Lord; and all the nations shall be gathered unto it, to the name of the Lord, to Jerusalem: neither shall they walk any more after the imagination of their evil heart. In those days the house of Judah shall walk with the house of Israel, and they shall come together out of the land of the north to the land that I have given for an inheritance unto your fathers.

Jeremiah 3:15-18

The rise of feeding pastors will lead to multiplied and increased churches. Spiritual feeders will minister knowledge and understanding that lead to the multiplying and the increase of the church. Great multiplication awaits the latter day church. The rise of feeding pastors who give knowledge and understanding will be unprecedented. Knowledgeable pastors and men of understanding are just about to be released. The rise of these feeding pastors will lead to the double mega missionary church.

6. There shall be a rise of teaching priests.

NOW FOR A LONG SEASON ISRAEL HATH BEEN WITHOUT THE TRUE GOD, AND WITHOUT A TEACHING PRIEST, and without law. But when they in their trouble did turn unto the Lord God of Israel, and sought him, he was found of them. And in those times there was no peace to him that went out, nor to him that came in, but great vexations were upon all the inhabitants of the countries. And nation was destroyed of nation, and city of city: for God did vex them with all adversity.

2 Chronicles 15:3-6

A teaching priest is a priest, who waits on God and comes forth with the powerful words of God. Through the ministry of the teaching priest, vexation in the church will come to an end. Church growth will be beautiful in the days of teaching priests. Because of teaching priests, you will see many double mega missionary churches.

7. There shall be a rise of lovers of God.

So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, FEED MY LAMBS. He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, FEED MY SHEEP. He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, FEED MY SHEEP.

John 21:15-17

In the last days, there will be a rise of God lovers. People who love God will raise their hands and care for God’s people. People who love God will feed the flock with the word of God. Perhaps, the greatest manifestation of your love for God is how you feed His sheep with the word of God. Those who love God will feed His sheep.

8. There shall be a rise of shepherds.

But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted, and WERE SCATTERED ABROAD, AS SHEEP HAVING NO SHEPHERD.

Matthew 9:36

The rise of a shepherd shall bring an end to the scattering of God’s people. Many people do not understand how important the ministry of a shepherd is. It is because there is no shepherd that the sheep are scattered. It is not because there is no prophet that the sheep are scattered.

The ministry of the shepherd is the ministry that creates the double mega missionary church. Powerful shepherds shall rise in these last days and give rise to double mega missionary churches. The prophet Ezekiel declares that God is going to set up shepherds who will save the people of God. The ministry of the shepherd is prophetically destined to change the landscape of the church. I smile to myself when I see people making fun of the shepherd’s ministry. I realise how ignorant they are about the mighty ministry of the shepherd. God will save His people through the shepherd. The earth will yield her increase through the shepherd. They shall dwell safely through the ministry of the shepherd.

THEREFORE WILL I SAVE MY FLOCK, and they shall no more be a prey; and I will judge between cattle and cattle. And I WILL SET UP ONE SHEPHERD OVER THEM, AND HE SHALL FEED THEM, even my servant David; he shall feed them, and he shall be their shepherd. And I the Lord will be their God, and my servant David a prince among them; I the Lord have spoken it. And I will make with them a covenant of peace, and will cause the evil beasts to cease out of the land: and they shall dwell safely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods. And I will make them and the places round about my hill a blessing; and I will cause the shower to come down in his season; there shall be showers of blessing. And the tree of the field shall yield her fruit, and THE EARTH SHALL YIELD HER INCREASE, and they shall be safe in their land, and shall know that I am the Lord, when I have broken the bands of their yoke, and delivered them out of the hand of those that served themselves of them. And THEY SHALL NO MORE BE A PREY TO THE HEATHEN, neither shall the beast of the land devour them; but they shall dwell safely, and none shall make them afraid.

Ezekiel 34:22-28

9. There shall be a rise of prophets who build double mega missionary churches.

THEN THE PROPHETS, HAGGAI THE PROPHET, AND ZECHARIAH THE SON OF IDDO, PROPHESIED unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, even unto them. Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and BEGAN TO BUILD THE HOUSE OF GOD which is at Jerusalem: and WITH THEM WERE THE PROPHETS OF GOD HELPING THEM.

Ezra 5:1-2

And by a prophet the Lord brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a prophet was he preserved.

Hosea 12:13

There shall be a rise of prophets who inspire the building of double mega missionary churches. Today, many prophets are basically solving personal problems of the people. Many people see prophets as those who are only sent to bring people out of financial difficulties. But soon, you will see more coming out of the prophet’s ministry. In the last days, many prophets will prophesy and inspire the building of churches. Haggai, the prophet, spoke in such a way that the people rose up to build the house of God. Zechariah also inspired the building of God’s house. Unfortunately, some prophets have helped to destroy churches by prophesying to people to leave their churches. This has made the prophet’s ministry unpopular. However, in the last days, the prophets of God will be used to help the work of God and not destroy it. Pastors will not be afraid of the prophets any longer. Prophets will speak into existence a bigger church. Prophets will speak the double mega missionary church into being.

Again he said unto me, Prophesy upon these bones, and say unto them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord God unto these bones; Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall live: And I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I am the Lord. So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to his bone. And when I beheld, lo, the sinews and the flesh came up upon them, and the skin covered them above: but there was no breath in them. Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord God; Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live.

Ezekiel 37:4-9

10. There shall be a rise of children.

BUT THE LORD SAID UNTO ME, SAY NOT, I AM A CHILD: FOR THOU SHALT GO TO ALL THAT I SHALL SEND THEE, and whatsoever I command thee thou shalt speak. Be not afraid of their faces: for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the Lord. Then the Lord put forth his hand, and touched my mouth. And the Lord said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms, to root out, and to pull down, and to destroy, and to throw down, TO BUILD, AND TO PLANT.

Jeremiah 1:7-10

Many children who can build and plant churches will rise in the last days. Children are going to be used by God in these last days. Do not say “I am a child.” Do not say, “I am too young.” Timothy was very young. Titus was also very young. Timothy suffered from youthful lusts but he became the pastor of a mega church. As long as he listened to the apostle Paul, he prospered and did the work of God well.

11. There shall be a rise of prophets and teachers.

NOW THERE WERE IN THE CHURCH THAT WAS AT ANTIOCH CERTAIN PROPHETS AND TEACHERS; as Barnabas, and Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manaen, which had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul. As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.

Acts 13:1-3

There shall also be a rise of the combo ministry of prophets and teachers. Prophets are quite different from teachers. So the combination of the prophet and teacher is indeed the release of two arms of God’s power. Prophets and teachers will change the landscape of the church. It was prophets and teachers, Saul and Barnabas, who spread the church of God across Asia. They are the greatest missionaries we know. The prophets and teachers planted churches everywhere. The prophets and teachers, Saul and Barnabas, were travelling day and night spreading the word of God. Prophets and teachers built the first ever double mega missionary church.

12. There shall be a rise of prosperity that will build the cities of God.

Cry yet, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts; MY CITIES THROUGH PROSPERITY SHALL YET BE SPREAD ABROAD; and the Lord shall yet comfort Zion, and shall yet choose Jerusalem.

Zechariah 1:17

A release of prosperity will take place in the last days. This prosperity will not be misused as much of the past prosperity of the church has been misused. Individuals will rise up to build churches! People will single-handedly finance the building of cathedrals. Men will donate lands, houses, gold and diamonds for the house of God. Through prosperity, the cities of God will be spread abroad. Through prosperity, the double mega missionary church will be raised up in the last days.

13. There shall be a rise of people who do well.

And it was in the heart of David my father to build an house for the name of the Lord God of Israel. And the Lord said unto David my father, WHEREAS IT WAS IN THINE HEART TO BUILD AN HOUSE UNTO MY NAME, THOU DIDST WELL THAT IT WAS IN THINE HEART. Nevertheless thou shalt not build the house; but thy son that shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build the house unto my name.

1 Kings 8:17-19

There shall be a rise of those who do well. Anyone who wants to build the house of God does well. You do well as soon as you start having a mind to build the church of God. In the last days, there will be a rise of people who do well. These people will build the double mega missionary church.

14. There shall be a rise of those who overcome obscurity.

And if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul; THEN SHALL THY LIGHT RISE IN OBSCURITY, AND THY DARKNESS BE AS THE NOONDAY: And the Lord shall guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not. And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places: thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in.

Isaiah 58:10-12

Many ministries start and end in obscurity. They are never heard of, they are never seen and they never do much for God. In the last days there shall be a rise of those who are in obscurity. A power will envelope these obscure pastors and they will have the ability to break out of being inconspicuous and unnoticed. Receive the power to come out of obscurity! You will be noticed from today! You will be a bright, shining and powerful church. You will become a double mega missionary church. Your bones will be fat! You will be like a watered garden! You will be like a spring whose waters fail not! You will build the waste places! You will build a double mega church!

15. There shall be a rise of shining stars. Those who can shine in the midst of gross darkness.

ARISE, SHINE; for thy light is come, and THE GLORY OF THE LORD IS RISEN upon thee. For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people: but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee. And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising.

Isaiah 60:1-3

In the last days, many pastors will arise and shine. They will do what they could not do before. They will accomplish things that only seem like dreams today.

In the last days, there will be gross darkness everywhere. There will be financial difficulty in every country.

Even the powerful nations will struggle in darkness. Evil will multiply. It is not difficult to see what I am talking about. It has already begun. It is in this environment of difficulty that the double mega missionary church will be built. This will be the era of rising and shining stars.

16. There shall be a rise of anointed builders.

The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me; because THE LORD HATH ANOINTED ME to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound;

To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn;

To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he might be glorified.

And THEY SHALL BUILD THE OLD WASTES, THEY SHALL RAISE UP THE FORMER DESOLATIONS, AND THEY SHALL REPAIR THE WASTE CITIES, the desolations of many generations.

Isaiah 61:1-4

There shall be a rise of anointed builders. It takes the grace of God to build the church. It takes much more than money to build the church. Through the anointing of God you will build churches. The gates of hell will be set against you. But you will be able to build the church. Today, very few churches are being built all over the world. God will use you to build in cities that are desolate of churches. The rise of anointed builders begins now! It is time for the builders of double mega missionary churches to rise and shine.

17. There shall be a rise of those whose mouths are touched to build and to plant churches.

THEN THE LORD PUT FORTH HIS HAND, AND TOUCHED MY MOUTH. And the Lord said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms, to root out, and to pull down, and to destroy, and to throw down, TO BUILD, AND TO PLANT.

Jeremiah 1:9-10

There shall be a rise of those whose mouths are touched by God. God is anointing you to speak words that will mobilize thousands of people. You will mobilize people and you will also mobilize money to do the work of God. From now, you are anointed to build and to plant. The gates of hell will not prosper against you. The building anointing is upon you! The planting anointing is upon you!

18. There shall be a rise of favoured ones.

Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for THE TIME TO FAVOUR HER, YEA, THE SET TIME, IS COME. For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof.

Psalms 102:13-14

The rise of favoured ones! These favoured ones are people who take pleasure in the stones of the church. These favoured ones are those who love even the dust of the church. Through the rise of favoured ones, double mega missionary churches will be built. The last days are the set time for the double mega missionary church.

19. There shall be a rise of multiplied men.

AND I WILL MULTIPLY MEN UPON YOU, all the house of Israel, even all of it: and the cities shall be inhabited, and the wastes shall be builded:

Ezekiel 36:10

In the last days, God will multiply men upon you. You will not stand alone in your church. You will have many to assist you. You will have many people to finance the mega projects of God’s house. You will not look at rows of empty seats. “I will multiply men upon you!” The seats will be filled! This is the prophecy for your church! God will multiply men upon you. The prophecy you believe is the prophecy that you receive! Expect everything to be multiplied!

20. There shall be a rise of flocks of men. In the last days, men shall be increased like a flock.

And they shall say, this land that was desolate is become like the garden of Eden; and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are become fenced, and are inhabited. Then the heathen that are left round about you shall know that I the Lord build the ruined places, and plant that that was desolate: I the Lord have spoken it, and I will do it. Thus saith the Lord God; I will yet for this be enquired of by the house of Israel, to do it for them; I WILL INCREASE THEM WITH MEN LIKE A FLOCK.

Ezekiel 36:35-37

God will increase you with men like a flock. The rise of flocks of men! Men will be like large flocks of sheep. You will not even be able to differentiate between the different sheep because there will be so many of them. God will fill the house with flocks of men.

21. There shall be a rise of those who consider their ways and build the house of God.

Thus saith the Lord of hosts; CONSIDER YOUR WAYS. GO UP TO THE MOUNTAIN, AND BRING WOOD, AND BUILD THE HOUSE; and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, saith the Lord.

Haggai 1:7-8

The rise of those who consider their ways! What does it mean to consider your ways? It means to think deeply about God’s purpose and whether you are fulfilling His will.

Few people think about God’s work. In the last days men shall be lovers of themselves! In the last days men shall be lovers of pleasure! In the last days men shall be lovers of money! Few people consider their ways and attempt to build the house of God instead of building their own houses. In these last days, there shall be a rise of those who consider their ways. Such people will build the double mega missionary church.

22. There shall be a rise of Rocks.

And I say also unto thee, THAT THOU ART PETER, AND UPON THIS ROCK I WILL BUILD MY CHURCH; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.

Matthew 16:18

You can only build the church of God upon a rock. In the last days there shall be a rise of rocks. Peter was the first rock and there shall be many other rocks! You need a hard, strong and stable personality to build the church of God. God will use you to build His house because you are a hard, disciplined, hardened soldier.

You will not be wavy, changing your mind at every meeting. You will not be unstable, changing your mind as the circumstances change. You will be strong and determined, no matter who is not on your side. You will not be a man pleaser. No woman, or wife will be able to manipulate you out of the will of God. There will be a rise of rocks! There will be a rise of rocks upon which the church can be built. The double mega missionary church will be built upon a rock.

23. There shall be a rise of saviours of men: people who take the Great Commission seriously.

Philip was a saviour of men. Philip brought salvation and church growth to Samaria.

But upon mount Zion shall be deliverance, and there shall be holiness; and the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions. And the house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau for stubble, and they shall kindle in them, and devour them; and there shall not be any remaining of the house of Esau; for the Lord hath spoken it. And they of the south shall possess the mount of Esau; and they of the plain the Philistines: and they shall possess the fields of Ephraim, and the fields of Samaria: and Benjamin shall possess Gilead. And the captivity of this host of the children of Israel shall possess that of the Canaanites, even unto Zarephath; and the captivity of Jerusalem, which is in Sepharad, shall possess the cities of the south. AND SAVIOURS SHALL COME UP ON MOUNT ZION to judge the mount of Esau; and the kingdom shall be the Lord’s.

Obadiah 1:17-21

Phillip the saviour:

THEN PHILIP WENT DOWN TO THE CITY OF SAMARIA, AND PREACHED CHRIST UNTO THEM. And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that were possessed with them: and many taken with palsies, and that were lame, were healed. And there was great joy in that city.

Acts 8:5-8

24. There shall be a rise of witnesses.

And he said unto them, it is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power. But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and YE SHALL BE WITNESSES UNTO ME BOTH IN JERUSALEM, AND IN ALL JUDAEA, AND IN SAMARIA, AND UNTO THE UTTERMOST PART OF THE EARTH.

Acts 1:7-8

There shall be a rise of witnesses. These are witnesses made so by the Holy Spirit’s coming into their lives. The Holy Spirit turns people into witnesses of Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit does not turn people into bankers, politicians or businessmen. The Holy Spirit turns people into witnesses for Jesus Christ. These witnesses will preach about Jesus Christ. These witnesses will preach the words of Jesus Christ shamelessly. These witnesses will bring in thousands to the Kingdom of God.

In the book of Acts, those who were filled with the Holy Spirit and became witnesses brought thousands into the church. These Holy Spirit-filled witnesses caused a multiplication of the church until the whole city came to the church. Read the scriptures below and see how three thousand, and then five thousand souls were saved. See how the whole city ended up in church. See how the number of disciples were multiplied.

Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and the same day there were added unto them about THREE THOUSAND SOULS.

Acts 2:41

Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed; and the number of the men was about FIVE THOUSAND.

Acts 4:4

And in those days, when THE NUMBER OF THE DISCIPLES WAS MULTIPLIED, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration.

Acts 6:1

And the next Sabbath day CAME ALMOST THE WHOLE CITY TOGETHER to hear the word of God.

Acts 13:44

25. There shall be a rise of faithful ones.

Moreover it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.

1 Corinthians 4:2

There shall be a rise of faithful ones. The faithful ones are those who do not preach another gospel. People who preach the gospel and are faithful, plant churches and go to the ends of the world. Many people are not faithful with the preaching of the gospel. There is going to be a rise of faithful gospel preachers that will give rise to the double mega missionary church. Will you be one of these faithful ones?





CHAPTER 2




I Will Build My Church!




And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I WILL BUILD MY CHURCH; AND THE GATES OF HELL shall not prevail against it.

Matthew 16:18

I will build my church: Jesus Christ declared it!

The greatest prophecy about church growth came from Jesus Himself. He prophesied, “I will build my church!”

This prophecy has come to pass and is still being fulfilled. It is because of this prophecy that I give myself to building churches; both spiritually and physically. Why swim against the tide? Why do something that God is not doing? If Jesus is building the church, why would you build something else? Jesus is not building hotels! Jesus is not building political parties! Jesus is not building businesses! Jesus is not building banks! Jesus is building His church!

I have managed a hotel before. It is no joke to run such a business. I have done business before. It is no small thing to buy and sell items. It is not a mean task to make profit from any activity you are involved in. You must have a proper respect for all business ventures. Business may look like something you can do on the side but I tell you there is no work that will not require your mind, your heart, your time, your energy and your love, if it is to succeed. You have to labour with all your heart if there will be profit.

We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts:

2 Peter 1:19

There are many prophecies that the church will be built. These prophecies declare that God’s kingdom will be established in the last days. These prophecies encourage us to keep working in the church, knowing that God will increase us and bless our efforts.

Because there are strong prophecies about the church, you must decide to walk in line with them. We have a more sure word of prophecy that will come to pass practically in our lives. We must take heed to this prophecy and give ourselves to the work of building the church. The church must be built at all cost because that is the will of God.

It is amazing that pastors have given themselves to building schools, universities, hotels, businesses, banks and political parties. Can you imagine the time and effort that a man of God will need to build a business, a hotel, a bank or a political party? All that time and effort is taken away from the building of the church of God.

Indeed, many ministers have redirected precious time, resources and energy from the building of the church to the building of human institutions.

Jesus said, “I will build my church!” I am privileged to be educated and I know that education is different from faith. Education is not the same as studying about Jesus and God. Building a school is a good thing but building a school is not the same as building the church.

It is time to focus on the words of Jesus Christ. “I will build my church!” Many universities around the world started out as Bible schools. A secular university is so different from a Bible school. Educational authorities know this and completely exclude spiritual things from their secular universities. They know that propagating Christianity is very separate and different from running a secular university.

It is amazing that ministers of God would rather give themselves to the building of universities than to the building of the house of God. The stark difference between a secular university and a Bible school is clear to secular authorities but that difference is not clear to most men of God. Men of God tend to think that in building a university they have somehow propagated Christianity. There can be nothing further from the truth than that. A secular university truly helps a nation and blesses mankind. But it is not the same as building the church of Jesus Christ. Often, building a secular university is a diversion of funds from the church, the mission and the true ministry of Jesus Christ.

Indeed, when a church builds a secular university, the nation benefits from having another secular institution but the church loses the chance to grow and expand into new territories. We are not called to do “good things”. We are called to do what God says! Make sure that God is the One who is asking you to divert money from preaching the gospel and building churches, into building secular universities!

I once spoke to a man of God whose father, an evangelist, had built a famous secular university. He admitted to me, “God told my father to build a Bible school but he went beyond that and built a secular university.” Let us remember the words of Jesus Christ and let us not substitute human wisdom for the wisdom of Jesus Christ.

And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I WILL BUILD MY CHURCH; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.

Matthew 16:18

I will build my church: Ezekiel prophesied it.

Thus saith the Lord God; I will yet for this be enquired of by the house of Israel, to do it for them; I WILL INCREASE THEM WITH MEN LIKE A FLOCK.

Ezekiel 36:37

In this marvellous prophecy, Ezekiel declared the church of God will be built and become like a flock. Whatever you have will be increased. It will grow. It will get bigger! You will have more! You must believe it in your heart and you must expect it! You do not have to steal somebody’s flock. You do not have to destroy somebody’s church. What you have is going to increase. Even though it is small today, it is going to get bigger.

I will build my church: Isaiah prophesied it.

Lift up thine eyes round about, and see: ALL THEY GATHER THEMSELVES TOGETHER, THEY COME TO THEE: thy sons shall come from far, and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy side.

Isaiah 60:4

In this amazing prophecy, there is a prediction that your spiritual sons and daughters will come from far. There will be a great gathering of the people that God is using you to minister to.

I will build my church: Isaiah prophesied it many times!

Fear not: for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from the EAST and gather thee from the WEST; I will say to the NORTH, Give up; and to the SOUTH, Keep not back: bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the ends of the earth;

Isaiah 43:5-6

All through the book of Isaiah, you see predictions of the church being built. In this wonderful church building prophecy, your church members will come from all four corners of the world. You will be amazed by how people will come from everywhere to listen to you preaching the word of God. People are going to come from every corner to fill the seats in your church. Let us believe that these prophetic words are real. These church building prophecies are the words of famous Jewish prophets. The greatest Jewish prophet of all was Jesus Christ.





CHAPTER 3


Church Growth is Warfare




And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; AND THE GATES OF HELL SHALL NOT PREVAIL against it.

Matthew 16:18

Building a church is the greatest war you will ever get involved with. Jesus said, “I will build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it.” The gates of hell are diametrically opposed to the building of the church of God. Notice that the gates of hell are set directly against the church.

When you believe that building a church is warfare, you will sit up and do better. You must have a warfare attitude if you want to build the church. You must have a warfare mind if you want to build the church. You cannot have a peaceful and “peace time” disposition if you want to build the church.

The gates of hell are attempting to prevail against the church. The gates of hell are oriented against the church, trying to overpower it. There are wicked forces that are sent to prevent church growth, church planting and church development. Many claim to be called to build churches but are unable to break through in ministry.

Preaching nicely is different from building a church. There are many nice preachers but not many can actually build a church. Indeed, not many can build a church that has a hundred members. Not many people can plant churches.

The gates of hell are against the planting of churches. Satan is opposed to the building of churches. He is vehemently opposed to you building a double mega missionary church in your lifetime. The gates of hell are against the building of a series of churches. The gates of hell are trying to prevail against the construction of church buildings. (Meanwhile, buildings of other religions are being rolled out in thousands). Satan knows the effect of a building and how it establishes a church; that is why he opposes you.

You must fight the gates of hell if you want to build the church. The gates of hell are the openings to hell. All types of devils and all types of opposition come against you through the gates of hell. These wicked powers are sent to fight those who build the church. Every type of devil comes through these gates of hell to resist the building of the church.

Devils of opposition, devils of resistance, devils of temptation, devils of accusation, devils of manipulation, Jezebel spirits, dogs, dragons, serpents and devils of deception are released against the building of a church.

The pastor who gives himself to building the church meets the greatest resistance from the depths of hell. There are many other Christian activities that can be undertaken. Teaching Christian classes, running Christian schools, running Christian hospitals and Christian orphanages are good Christian activities. But the gates of hell are not opposed to these in the same way.

The gates of hell are absolutely opposed to the building of the church. That is why a man of God must be absolutely determined to build the church. Why would Jesus say that He would build His church and immediately mention the gates of hell?

Why would Jesus declare that He would build His church and then immediately describe the opposition to this work as being the gates of hell?

The gates of hell are totally against the church! Demons of deception are sent out to fight the building of the church. These resisting demons come through the gates of hell. These demons of deception manipulate men of God and direct them to build everything else other than the church. These demons from the gates of hell make pastors build offices, businesses, banks, NGOs (Non-Governmental Organisations), schools, universities, orphanages, hospitals and every other good work apart from the church.

You will notice that many pastors are more ardently connected to building these things than they are to the building of the church. I have noticed that missionaries are able to build schools more easily than they build the church. The gates of hell are not against schools. The gates of hell are against churches.

The gates of hell are unquestionably against the church. Demons of procrastination are sent to fight the building of the church. Instead of starting immediately to build the church, many people delay until it is too late. They do not realise that the gates of hell are influencing them.

Years ago, one of my missionaries wanted to build a particular NGO instead of building a church. I quickly told him to forget about the NGO and build the church of God instead. Today, the church is standing tall but this NGO does not exist. Many NGOs which were started in those days have evaporated into thin air but the church is still standing strong.

The gates of hell are utterly against the church. Demons of resistance and opposition are sent to fight the building of the church. I have not found as much resistance in any area as I have found in the building of the church.

I have encountered resistance from my bishops and top leaders whenever I have wanted to build the church. The most heated meetings I have ever been in always had to do with building the church. I have had meetings that virtually turned into quarrels when I wanted to build the church. Demons possess pastors and make them divert money into everything other than building a double mega missionary church.

The gates of hell are against the church! Demons of distraction are sent to fight the building of the church. Pastors would rather have conventions and stay under tents than build their churches. There have to be meetings to shake people up and remind them of their one and only task: to build the church!

I met a pastor of a large church who gave himself to the empowerment of people through computer skills, investments, business deals and market place engineering. Indeed, these estimable activities seemed so powerful and effective at the time but they all ended up in smoke, achieving little or nothing. When this pastor was in his sixties, he suddenly realised the need to build churches. In his old age, he attempted to build churches but obviously there was little he could do at his age.

The gates of hell are against the church! Demons of worthlessness are sent to fight the building of the church. When your church does not have a building, it is easy to be closed down. Recently, a president in an African nation announced the closure of many churches that did not have buildings. Churches that do not have buildings are easily attacked and wiped out. The gates of hell are against the church.

The gates of hell are completely and totally against the church! Demons of theft are sent to fight the building of the church. Instead of building the church, money is diverted into private pockets. Cars are bought, air tickets are bought, buses are bought, personal homes are built and pastors spend a lot of money. However, none of this money is spent on the church. Many pastors steal the church’s money. Many divert the money that is meant for the building of the church into private pockets.

The gates of hell are against the church! The demons of frustration fight pastors who are trying to build the church. The gates of hell are against the building of the church. When contractors inflate the prices of projects, the church is unable to build much. This inflation of prices, as well as stealing from the project, are all manifestations of demonic opposition to the church.

Many of the workers and artisans are used by evil spirits to frustrate the building of a church. Architects are inspired by the devil to design unbuildable projects. Many projects never start because of the design presented by the architect. Many projects cannot be completed because of the complicated designs of some architects. These are all demonic works. The gates of hell are totally opposed to the building of any church.

When you recognize that building a church is warfare, you will sit up and do better. You must have a warfare attitude if you want to build the church. You must have a warfare mind if you want to build the church. You cannot have a peaceful and “peace time” disposition if you want to build the church.

Church growth is warfare! Something is fighting you, that is why your church is not growing. If you think satan is going to quickly and easily give up his prized souls to your church, then you do not understand what is happening. Satan is the god of this world and has captured the hearts and minds of billions of souls. Satan is a wicked fallen angel! He wants to have multitudes in hell with him. Satan is standing his ground, resisting the release of captured souls. Satan will not give up any one without a fight. He will only give them up through a real war. Pastors who are not prepared to go to war cannot have church growth.

The gates of hell are against church growth. That is why pastors are directed to read every other book apart from the books on church growth. Pastors are excited when they see books on how to become a millionaire. Men of God are more interested in reading books on business rather than reading books on church growth, church planting and church work.

It is time for you to rise up with the mind of a fighter. You need the mind of someone who is at war. People at war are different from people at peace. It is time to deploy every effort to fight the war of church growth and church building. This book is all about fighting and campaigning relentlessly for church growth, church planting and church building. “I will build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it”!





CHAPTER 4




The Campaign for Church Growth




For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries.

1 Corinthians 16:9

An open door means that there are great prospects for ministry and church growth.

A great door to church growth is opened to all pastors who care to experience the fulfilment of this prophecy. It has been prophesied, so it will surely come to pass. An effectual door has been opened in the ministry.

What is a door? A door is an opportunity. A door is a chance to achieve something. Do you believe that there are great prospects for church growth? I do! I believe that God is building His church. I believe that is the most important thing happening in the world today.

Like everything else, your call will be tested and contested. Satan will not allow you to have it easy. He will fight with you every step of the way. You must begin an aggressive campaign to achieve church growth and to see the fulfilment of prophecy in your life.

A campaign is a systematic course of aggressive activity for some specific purpose. It is important that pastors take up a systematic progression of aggressive activities that will lead to church growth. Unfortunately, many ministers do not respect their ministries enough to apply themselves to these campaigns. They do not plan and develop a series of aggressive activities that will lead to church growth. Church growth is possible! Church growth is difficult to achieve but it is possible! It is nice to have church growth but it is not easy to have church growth!

Every church growth campaign must have these three elements.

1. A church growth campaign must be systematic.

2. A church growth campaign must consist of a series of aggressive activities.

3. A church growth campaign must have a specific purpose.

This book contains a systematic course of aggressive activities that are designed to help your church to grow practically.

Many pastors think that their churches will grow by osmosis. Many think that crowds of people will mysteriously appear in the church. That is not the case. Your church will grow through a series of campaigns.

Wars are often called military campaigns. This is because a war does not involve just shooting guns. War involves propaganda. War involves creating industries that manufacture weapons. A military campaign involves activities like espionage, military intelligence and creating military prisons to keep prisoners of war.

War involves travel, transportation, the provision of food for the military, the storage of food for the military, the care of the military, the care for injured soldiers, the building of air fields, the building of harbours, the building and management of military hospitals, the recruitment of doctors, the resettlement of soldiers after war and the caring for wives and children of soldiers who have lost their lives in war.

You are in a war to achieve church growth. God wants you to set up a campaign of systematic aggressive activities that lead towards your singular goal of church growth. Church growth is possible through a series of campaigns! A double mega church is possible!





CHAPTER 5


All Campaigns Work Together for Good




And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose.

Romans 8:28

All the campaigns must work together in order to achieve church growth.

Since the word of God is sure, you can expect church growth to come at all costs. It is time to apply the wisdom of God to bring about church growth. All things work together for good. One of the good things is church growth. This means that many things must be working at the same time for the good experience of church growth. The prophecies are going to work together for your good. The wisdom of God is also going to work together for good.

The Human Body

For a human body to grow, many things need to work together at the same time. The bladder fills with urine at the same time as the heart is pumping blood. The brain is taking decisions whilst the muscles of the legs are moving. The liver is removing toxins from the blood and the kidney is clearing out urea from the blood. While all this is going on, the ears are hearing and the eyes are seeing.

Unbelievably, your mouth fills up with saliva caused by secretions of your sub-mandibular and parotid glands, whilst your nose is being filled with secretions that make you feel like blowing your nose. At the same time, the stomach dissolves meat that has been swallowed whilst the duodenum digests bread. Whilst all this is happening, a little blood may be flowing out of the womb of a woman during menstruation. At the same time that all this is happening, hormones are being secreted into your blood. At the same time, your colon absorbs water and forms faeces in your rectum that makes you feel like going to the toilet.

While all these things are going on, chemical reactions take place in your blood. Several biochemical reactions and cycles take place regularly.

As you can see from all these, the human body is very busy indeed. Nothing stops at any time. Many unrelated activities go on all the time. It is these varied, continuous and unrelated activities that cause the body to live and grow normally.

The Body of Christ

So we, being many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another.

Romans 12:5

The church is the body of Christ. If it is to grow normally and become what it is intended to become, it is going to need several unrelated activities to work together intelligently. When all the different spiritual activities are in place, the body has no choice but to grow.

In this book, I am presenting a series of scriptural activities that must continue throughout the life of the church, if it is to grow. Imagine what would happen in the human body if your heart did not work for five minutes? There would be confusion and chaos if different systems in the body shut down at different times.

It is the work of the shepherd to make his church grow. A good shepherd knows exactly what to do to cause his flock to multiply. He knows the different things he has to do if the flock is to grow. A good shepherd ensures that all important activities go on simultaneously. A good shepherd ensures that none of the essential activities of the church ever cease or slacken.





CHAPTER 6




SSSHHABBIE SHEPHERDING MUUSSSTTT GO




This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you; in both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance: 2 Peter 3:1

Paul sent a letter that was intended to stir up the memory of his followers. He wanted them to remember some key things that were important for their lives. I have a little mnemonic here that is to stir up your memory so that you always know the key areas that are important in the building of a bigger church.

A mnemonic is something that aids the memory. A mnemonic is something intended to assist you in remembering something important. We have here a little mnemonic that will help you to remember the different campaigns that are necessary to cause and sustain church growth. This mnemonic is simply: SSSHABBIE SHEPHERDING MUUSSSTTT GO

Hopefully, this mnemonic will help you to remember the many different things that all work together for the good thing called church growth and church expansion. Obviously, it is only for those who are interested.

S – Soul-winning, mission consciousness campaign S – State of the flock campaign S – Servants armed and trained campaign H – Hearing and seeing campaign H – Honour your prophet campaign A – Anti-Brutish campaign

B – Bacenta, Basonta, Batenta Proliferation campaign B – Building structures campaign I – Intimate counselling campaign E – Equipment and Technology campaign SHEPHERDING – Shepherds’ control M – Multiplication campaign

U – Uncles and Aunties campaign U – Understanding campaign

S – Swollen Sunday campaign

S – Sheep seeking campaign

S – Sunday management campaign T – Testimony campaign

T – Telepastoring campaign

T – Tangerine campaign

G – Gathering bus campaign

O – Organised Creative Arts campaign





CHAPTER 7




The “Soul Winning and Mission Consciousness” Campaign




For the Son of man is come to save that which was lost.

Matthew 18:11

Many churches are not conscious of lost souls. Neither are they conscious of missions to win souls. This is obvious because of what a pastor preaches to their members. Today, most churches are fed on the doctrines of success, the doctrine of happiness, the doctrine of a good life, the doctrine of wealth creation, the doctrine of the market place and the doctrine of prosperity.

These concepts can be found in the Bible and there are many scriptures that can be pulled in here and there to make everyone conscious of success, wealth and happiness! However, even though these ideas can be supported from the Bible, they are not the main doctrines of the church. These doctrines are side topics. These things are blessings that follow some people who serve God.

To build a double mega missionary church, you need to have a congregation that is conscious of soul winning. A church must prioritize what Jesus has prioritized! A church must love what Jesus loves! A church must have on its heart what Jesus had on His heart!

This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief.

1 Timothy 1:15

Do not be deceived by huge ministries that promote materialism and the grasping of riches. That is not the gospel! Most church members are not interested in soul winning. Their pastors are teaching them how to be rich, how to get things and how to be just like the world! If you could sense the presence of God, you would notice that many of these large and popular ministries do not have the presence of God even though they have a large crowd following them.

If you were to go deeper, you would notice that most of these apparently rich ministries are up to their necks in debt. Many of these ministries are about to collapse or will collapse soon after you read this book.

God did not send Jesus Christ into this world to distribute earthly riches, wealth and material goods. You will notice Jesus urging his followers to sell what they had, to distribute to the poor and to follow Him. (Matthew 19:21). You will notice Jesus Christ warning His followers not to lay up treasures on earth as is the manner of some. (Matthew 6:19-20). You will notice Jesus Christ warning that you cannot serve God and mammon. (Luke 16:13).

It is time to build a soul winning, mission conscious church. What is a soul winning, mission conscious church? A soul winning, mission conscious church is a church which is conscious of God’s agenda on earth. It is a church that wants to win souls, start missions and go into the world preaching the gospel.

The pastor of such a church must constantly feed the congregation with the consciousness of lost and dying souls, rather than the consciousness of materialism, wealth creation, business success and market place engineering. Soul winning must be important not just for the youth or drop outs in society. In a soul winning, mission conscious church, everybody is interested in winning souls for Jesus.

A soul winning, mission conscious church sends out missionaries to plant branches of the church in different nations and in different regions of the world. This is the kind of church that can become a double mega missionary church.

It is up to you now to choose which kind of pastor you want to be. The people you associate with are likely to be just like you. If the ministers of the gospel who are your friends are conscious of souls, you are likely to be equally conscious of soul winning. If they are on fire about soul winning and world missions you are likely to be on fire about soul winning and world missions.

Start preaching and start listening to soul winning messages and start reading about the importance of soul winning. What you put in is what will come out! Start reading about the heroes of soul winning. The great evangelists and soul winners like William Booth must be people you admire.

Instead of telling your congregation about the achievements of Bill Gates and Steve Jobs tell them about the achievements of William Booth, Reinhard Bonnke and Billy Graham. Such people must be more popular in your church than Lee Kuan Yew, George Bush, Nelson Mandela and Winston Churchill.

Tell your church about great missionaries like Adoniram Judson and William Carey. Instead of giving them quotations from Encyclopaedia Britannica, Forbes Magazine and the Financial Times give them quotations from these Christian heroes. Tell them about the great missionaries who gave their lives to bring the gospel to the islands and to the ends of the earth.

It is time to believe in God’s word. It is time to preach from Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. It is time to emphasize the words of Jesus Christ! Stand in your pulpit and build a soul winning, mission conscious church. Lead people to win souls and let them feel your genuine heart for souls.

God so loved the world that He gave His Son for the salvation of human beings. This will never change, no matter which important minister says otherwise! I cannot change it, and neither can you! There is a curse on everyone who preaches another gospel. Do you want this curse to operate on your life? Do not trifle with the curses of Paul! You cannot substitute the gospel of the cross of Jesus Christ with a “gospel of happiness”, a “gospel of wealth creation”, a “gospel of market place prosperity”, and a “gospel of motivational speeches”. Woe to those who preach another gospel!

I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto ANOTHER GOSPEL: Which is not another; but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ.

Galatians 1:6-7





CHAPTER 8


The “State of the Flock” Campaign




Be thou diligent to KNOW THE STATE OF THY FLOCKS, and look well to thy herds. For riches are not for ever: and doth the crown endure to every generation?

Proverbs 27:23-24

In order to be a good pastor and to generate growth, there must be a serious campaign to know the state of the flock. Information, data and facts will become important if you undertake a state of the flock campaign. You will only harm yourself if you tell yourself lies. If you tell yourself that you have a thousand members when in reality you have three hundred members, you only deceive yourself.

You may impress people but you will not impress God. There are a group of pastors who only love to work with the anointing and the Holy Spirit. They despise the use of data and accurate information. Such people have actually rejected the Spirit of wisdom and the Spirit of knowledge. God is not against knowledge, understanding and wisdom. God created knowledge, wisdom and understanding! To reject wisdom is to embrace foolishness in ministry. I recently analysed churches that were founded about eighty years ago. I realised that churches which took information and data seriously lasted longer and had many more fruits to show.

One pastor made a comment. He said, “My church is not governed by a piece of paper.” He was rejecting the concept of having a constitution and a set of rules. Do not be impressed by foolish statements that are intended to make you laugh. Such people do not go far in the ministry. I know when I had a crusade with only six hundred people attending and I know when I had a crusade with half a million people attending. If I had not taken data seriously, I would never have known that the crusades had grown. I would have given myself to deception and to the deceivable nature of unrighteousness. (2 Thessalonians 2:10).

It is important to know the true state of the flock of God. What is the spiritual condition of the people? How many young Christians do I have? How many youth are present? What do I need to teach the people?

Do you know how many people you have? How many members do you have? Where are they? How many people actually attend the services? How many people pay tithes? How many people are married? How long have people been married? Do we have old marriages or just new ones? Are weddings common? Are funerals common?

How many children are there in the church? How many marriages are taking place in the church?

How many doctors do you have? How many lawyers do you have? Where are the businessmen? Are there any other professionals in the church? What is the financial situation of the sheep? Where do people live? Do you know their houses? How many poor people are there?

Technology is important if you are to master the State of the Flock Campaign. Never reject technology. God is a God of new inventions. He is the Creator of the witty inventions that human beings are using freely today. Through technology you will gain control of the church and be able to grow into thousands. It is interesting that it was no other person than wise Solomon who warned pastors to know the state of their flocks.

1. Know the state of the flocks. Look well to thy herds.

Be thou diligent to KNOW THE STATE OF THY FLOCKS, and look well to thy herds. For riches are not for ever: and doth the crown endure to every generation?

Proverbs 27:23-24

2. Do a state of the flock campaign because churches are not great forever. Riches are not forever. A large church does not automatically continue being large. The power you have over the flock is not automatically transferred to the next generation.



Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks, and look well to thy herds.

For riches are not for ever: and DOTH THE CROWN ENDURE TO EVERY GENERATION?



Proverbs 27:23-24

3. Knowing the state of the flock leads to all your needs being met.

The hay appeareth, and the tender grass sheweth itself, and herbs of the mountains are gathered. The lambs are for thy clothing, and the goats are the price of the field. And thou shalt have goats’ milk enough for thy food, for the food of thy household, and for the maintenance for thy maidens.

Proverbs 27:25-27

If you are a good shepherd, you will have the needed finances for food, clothing and shelter. You will have all the finances you need to buy lands and properties.

Many people leave pastoral work to the uneducated. Many people send mental patients to Bible schools. That is a reflection of what they actually think about God’s work. Being a pastor is one of the best jobs in the world. It is sad that many educated people reject the high calling of being in the ministry.

4. Knowing the state of the flock leads to knowing the state of the finances. The state of the finances campaign is important so that you are a good steward of what God has provided. Ananias and Sapphira are the first people known to steal and lie in the church. They are definitely not the last people to ever steal and lie in the church.

But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession, And kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy to it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the apostles’ feet.

But Peter said, Ananias, WHY HATH SATAN FILLED THINE HEART TO LIE TO THE HOLY GHOST, AND TO KEEP BACK PART OF THE PRICE OF THE LAND? Whiles it remained, was it not thine own? and after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart? thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.

Acts 5:1-4

Knowing the state of the flock means you must be frugal. It is important to count every little penny that you receive and store it at the right place. Through the frugality of Jesus, you will never be in need.

The state of the finance campaign is done to account for every cent that God provides for the church. Many pastors raise money but do not realise how much is lost between the offering basket, those who count and those who bank the money.

People have been stealing and lying in church since the days of Ananias and Sapphira. Amazingly, people are always conceiving ways to steal from the church.





CHAPTER 9




The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign




And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, HE ARMED HIS TRAINED SERVANTS, born in his own house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan.

Genesis 14:14

The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign is about having many servants of God in the church. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign is about arming the servants with the tools that they need. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign is about training many people to fight for God’s kingdom.

Abraham had many servants! Abraham trained his servants! Abraham armed his trained servants! It is important that all the servants in the church are armed and trained!

It is time to follow the example of Abraham who had many armed and trained servants. Let us see what the scripture teaches us to do.

1. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign ensures that every member is a servant of God.

Then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not.

Malachi 3:18

There is a big difference between a church member and a servant of God. A church member does nothing for God. A church member just attends church. A church member sits around and receives a lot, giving nothing. Make sure that your church is full of servants and not members.

2. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign ensures that every servant of God is trained with the Word.

Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant, how that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea; AND WERE ALL BAPTIZED UNTO MOSES IN THE CLOUD AND IN THE SEA;

1 Corinthians 10:1-2

The training of a servant of God is deeper than the teachings that ordinary Christians receive. A servant of God is immersed into the teachings of the house. These teachings become a part of their lives.

The Israelites were baptized into Moses. Israel was baptized deeply into all the doctrines, commands and teachings of Moses. They were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. This baptism was both in public and in private. The children of Israel were deep into Moses’ teachings both in the sea and in the cloud. All the servants of the house need to be baptized deeply into the teachings.

3. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign ensures that every servant of God is grafted into the anointing.

As in water face answereth to face, so THE HEART OF MAN TO MAN.

Proverbs 27:19

Servants armed and trained are much higher than ordinary members. The servants armed and trained are connected to the anointing. Heart must be connected to heart. Servants armed and trained have hearts that are connected to the heart of their mentor and father. It is the only way to be grafted into the family.

4. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign ensures that every servant of God is trained through multiple experiences.

Moab hath been at ease from his youth, and he hath settled on his lees, and hath not been emptied from vessel to vessel, neither hath he gone into captivity: therefore his taste remained in him, and his scent is not changed.

Jeremiah 48:11

Moab was at ease because he had not been emptied from vessel to vessel. Being emptied from vessel to vessel speaks of being moved around from place to place. Being transferred around and being made to work in different circumstances is very important in the development of God’s servants. Moab’s scent was not changed. His scent remained in him. It is important that your natural scent (tendencies, thoughts, ideals, ideas and attitudes) is changed into a militarized servant of God.

5. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign ensures that every servant of God is equipped with books.

And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and said, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.

And I went unto the angel, and said unto him, Give me the little book. And he said unto me, Take it, and eat it up; and it shall make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey.

And I took the little book out of the angel’s hand, and ate it up; and it was in my mouth sweet as honey: and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter. And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many peoples, and nations, and tongues, and kings.

Revelations 10:8-11

Every single one of God’s servants must be armed with Christian books that teach about the ministry. Through a book a person can be trained to prophesy and to preach to many people, many nations, many tongues and kings. Books are the master key to receiving the supernatural power of God. When God wants to bless you, He will send an angel to bring you a book.

Many years ago God sent an angel to bring me a book. I can still see him dropping the little book on the table of the verandah of my father’s house! “That’s a good book, read it”, he said. With those words I received admission into the school of ministry. Little did I know what that little book was going to lead me into.

6. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign ensures that every servant of God is armed with large collections of audio and video preaching messages.

And the spirit entered into me when he spake unto me, and set me upon my feet, that I heard him that spake unto me.

Ezekiel 2:2

Listening to messages and watching videos will ensure that the servants are armed with the anointing. The Spirit will enter you when you listen to the word of God.

Through technology you can have large collections of audio and video teaching messages. These are weapons that every servant needs to be armed with.

There are messages of God that are meant for shepherds.

7. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign ensures that every servant of God is armed with messages that are designed for preachers and teachers.

And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, PROPHESY AGAINST THE SHEPHERDS OF ISRAEL, PROPHESY, AND SAY UNTO THEM, THUS SAITH THE LORD GOD UNTO THE SHEPHERDS; Woe be to the shepherds of Israel that do feed themselves! should not the shepherds feed the flocks?

Ezekiel 34:1-2

You must distinguish between messages intended for the general flock and messages intended for shepherds.

There are preaching messages that the servants of God must be armed with. In the thirty-fourth chapter of Ezekiel, we see messages that are specifically meant for the shepherds and not the ordinary congregants. “The Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign must ensure that the servants are armed with special messages for preachers and teachers. The “Machaneh*” is one such collection of preaching and teaching messages.

8. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign allows for an increase in the amount of teaching of the word of God. This preaching and teaching campaign increases the growth and blessing in the church.

And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith.

Acts 6:7

9. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign does not aim to have church services that are short.

And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, PAUL PREACHED UNTO THEM, ready to depart on the morrow; AND CONTINUED HIS SPEECH UNTIL MIDNIGHT. And there were many lights in the upper chamber, where they were gathered together. And there sat in a window a certain young man named Eutychus, being fallen into a deep sleep: and as Paul was long preaching, he sunk down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft, and was taken up dead.

Acts 20:7-9

Longer church services are important so that we can linger in the presence of the Lord. Backslidden Christians want to shorten every church service! They want to dispose of God as fast as they can.

10. The “Servants Armed and Trained” Campaign aims to have many church camps where there is no concern about how long we stay in the presence of God.

And WHEN THE PEOPLE SAW THAT MOSES DELAYED TO COME DOWN OUT OF THE MOUNT, THE PEOPLE GATHERED THEMSELVES TOGETHER UNTO AARON, AND SAID UNTO HIM, UP, MAKE US GODS, which shall go before us; for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.

Exodus 32:1

Long sessions of teaching must come on without the concern that the sessions are being delayed or prolonged. The preaching and teaching campaign will ensure that the word of God increases in the church. When the church is concerned about prolonged or delayed services they are in danger of falling into sin like the Israelites did. We must have congregations that are not concerned with the length of time that we spend in the presence of God.

* The Machaneh is a collection of preaching and teaching camp messages by the author, Bishop Dag Heward-Mills. It is available on podcast and at daghewardmillsaudio.org





CHAPTER 10




The “Hearing and Seeing” Campaign




But blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they hear.

Matthew 13:16

The “Hearing and Seeing” Campaign is to ensure that the church members both see and hear the word of God. They must see and hear the word being preached constantly. They must see and hear the word of God constantly on television and on the internet.

The sheep must hear the word of God through whichever technology is available. You must make the sheep addicts of preaching and teaching. A congregation which constantly (daily) listens to the word of God is completely different from a congregation that hears the word of God once a week. Every time the word of God comes into a person, he or she changes. We are transformed by the renewing of our minds.

There is a blessing for all eyes that see and all ears that hear! You must ensure that the eyes and ears of your church members are blessed. When their eyes see, and their ears hear, they change and receive many spiritual blessings.

Use every technology that is available to accomplish the “Hearing and Seeing” Campaign. Use podcast, use Whatsapp, use television, use radio, use anything! Use camp meetings, use church services, use crusades, use smaller group meetings. Just make sure that your members are seeing and hearing the word of God all the time!

Let us look at the marvellous effects of the word of God on the ordinary church member.

1. Hearing the word of God will make the children fear God.

Remember the day you stood before the Lord your God at Horeb, when the Lord said to me, ‘ASSEMBLE THE PEOPLE TO ME, THAT I MAY LET THEM HEAR MY WORDS SO THEY MAY LEARN TO FEAR ME all the days they live on the earth, and that they may teach their children. ’

Deuteronomy 4:10 (NASB)

2. Christians who do not “hear” the word of God are experiencing a spiritual famine. Do not let your church experience a spiritual famine. If you do so, your church will be made up of ill-favoured members.

Behold, the days come, saith the Lord God, that I will send A FAMINE in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but OF HEARING THE WORDS of the Lord:

Amos 8:11

3. When the people hear the word of God their faith will increase. Hearing the word of God will increase their faith.

So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.

Romans 10:17

4. Hearing the word of God constantly will increase the anointing on the lives of the sheep.

And the spirit entered into me when he spake unto me, and set me upon my feet, that I heard him that spake unto me.

Ezekiel 2:2

5. Christians who do not listen become an abomination to the extent that even their prayers become an abomination.

He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abomination.

Proverbs 28:9

6. Seeing and hearing the word of God will bring about real changes and conversions.

That SEEING THEY MAY SEE, and not perceive; and HEARING THEY MAY HEAR, AND not understand; lest at any time THEY SHOULD BE CONVERTED, and their sins should be forgiven them.

Mark 4:12

7. Christians are going to be more compliant and obedient to their leader when they hear the word of God. The people of Samaria were more obedient to Philip when they both heard and saw something. Christians are easier to lead when they see certain things. The church members need to see as well as to hear.

Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them. And THE PEOPLE WITH ONE ACCORD GAVE HEED unto those things which Philip spake, HEARING AND SEEING the miracles which he did.

Acts 8:5-6

8. The sheep must constantly see their shepherd. When they do not see their shepherd they are like sheep without a shepherd. How is this possible? By the technology of today, the sheep can see their shepherd on a daily basis.

And Moses spake unto the Lord, saying, Let the Lord, the God of the spirits of all flesh, SET A MAN OVER THE CONGREGATION, WHICH MAY GO OUT before them, and which may GO IN BEFORE THEM, and which may lead them out, and which may bring them in; that the congregation of the Lord BE NOT AS SHEEP WHICH HAVE NO SHEPHERD. And the Lord said unto Moses, Take thee Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the spirit, and lay thine hand upon him;

Numbers 27:15-18





CHAPTER 11


The “Honour the Prophet” Campaign




And when the sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, From whence hath this man these things? and what wisdom is this which is given unto him, that even such mighty works are wrought by his hands? Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and Joses, and of Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And they were offended at him. But Jesus said unto them, A PROPHET IS NOT WITHOUT HONOUR, but in his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own house. And HE COULD THERE DO NO MIGHTY WORK, save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folk, and healed them.

Mark 6:2-5

The “Honour the Prophet” Campaign is all about increasing the faith of the congregation in their pastor. Where the prophet is not honoured, there are no mighty works! Jesus Christ is the greatest prophet who ever lived. Yet, He could do no mighty works in His hometown of Nazareth.

Jesus was not honoured in His hometown and the anointing seemed not to work over there. Jesus could not do miracles save lay hands on a few sick folk. How could this be? Jesus said that a prophet is without honour in his hometown and among his own kindred.

In a church, a pastor is easily dishonoured and disregarded because he is around all the time. His wonderful sermons are not valued because they are heard every week.

Over the years, I noticed how church members disregarded the prophecies that I gave to them. They considered the great messages coming from me as good advice from a concerned brother. They did not even recognise me as a prophet in their lives. As such, they could not recognise and benefit from the great blessing that was coming to them from the Lord.

And by a prophet the Lord brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a prophet was he preserved.

Hosea 12:13

It is important to set up a campaign that will ensure that the pastor is honoured as a true prophet bringing the Word of the Lord. When the prophet is honoured, a great anointing will flow and many blessings will come to the people. Honouring the prophet is to honour the person whom God will use to take the flock out of Egypt and into the Promise Land. When the pastor is received as a great prophet, he will lead a large congregation out of darkness and difficulty. He will bring a large congregation into a great place of blessings.

1. The “Honour the Prophet” Campaign will ensure that the church members have regard for their pastor. To dishonour a pastor is to disregard, ignore and to neglect his wisdom, his thoughts, his revelations, his teachings and his ministry.

LET THE ELDERS THAT RULE WELL BE COUNTED WORTHY OF DOUBLE HONOUR, especially they who labour in the word and doctrine.

I Timothy 5:17

2. The “Honour the Prophet” Campaign will ensure that the church members obey, defer to, yield to, submit to, agree and comply with their pastors’ commands and visions. The deference, the agreeing and the compliance with instructions are manifestations of honour for the prophet. Failure to defer to, to agree with, to comply with the pastor are clear manifestations of a lack of honour.

OBEY THEM THAT HAVE THE RULE OVER YOU, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable for you.

Hebrews 13:17

3. The “Honour the Prophet” Campaign will ensure that the church members reward the pastor for his contribution, his input, his worth and his very existence in your life. To dishonour someone is to fail to reward him or to pay him adequately for his great contribution, inputs and his worth to your life. It is important to reap the greatest harvest possible by appreciating your prophet. According to Galatians 6:6, you must share all good things with him that teaches you the Word.

Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things. Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.

Galatians 6:6-7

To honour someone is to present appropriate gifts that he does not need, but are presented for the sake of honour only.

A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: IF THEN I BE A FATHER, WHERE IS MINE HONOUR? And if I be a master, where is my fear? saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, wherein have we despised thy name?

Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar; and ye say, wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, the table of the Lord is contemptible.

And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? and if ye offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? Offer it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee, or accept thy person? saith the Lord of hosts

Malachi 1:6-8

4. The “Honour the Prophet” Campaign will ensure that the church members think well of their pastor and bestow on him all things that are necessary.

And when they were escaped, then they knew that the island was called Melita. And the barbarous people shewed us no little kindness: for they kindled a fire, and received us every one, because of the present rain, and because of the cold. And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid them on the fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his hand. And when the barbarians saw the venomous beast hang on his hand, they said among themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he hath escaped the sea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live. And he shook off the beast into the fire, and felt no harm. Howbeit they looked when he should have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god. In the same quarters were possessions of the chief man of the island, whose name was Publius; who received us, and lodged us three days courteously.

And it came to pass, that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever and of a bloody flux: to whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and laid his hands on him, and healed him. So when this was done, others also, which had diseases in the island, came, and were healed: WHO ALSO HONOURED US WITH MANY HONOURS; AND WHEN WE DEPARTED, THEY LADED US WITH SUCH THINGS AS WERE NECESSARY.

Acts 28:1-10

5. The “Honour the Prophet” Campaign will ensure that the church members rise up before their pastor, notice him and give attention to him because he is worthy of it. Notice how an old man is to be honoured. You must rise up before him, notice him and give him attention. This is what it means to honour your pastor and your prophet.

THOU SHALT RISE UP BEFORE THE HOARY HEAD, AND HONOUR the face of the old man, and fear thy God: I am the LORD.

Leviticus 19:32





CHAPTER 12




The “Anti-Brutish” Campaign




For THE PASTORS ARE BECOME BRUTISH, AND HAVE NOT SOUGHT THE LORD: therefore they shall not prosper, and all their flocks shall be scattered.

Jeremiah 10:21

1. When pastors and shepherds do not seek the Lord, they become brutish.

For THE PASTORS ARE BECOME BRUTISH, AND HAVE NOT SOUGHT THE LORD: therefore they shall not prosper, and all their flocks shall be scattered.

Jeremiah 10:21

Pastors who do not seek the Lord are dry, unspiritual and not anointed. That is what it means to be brutish. Dry and unspiritual people cannot build a double mega missionary church. Without prayer, you become a brutish minister. People who lack the grace and the oil cannot build a large church. You are brutish when you have to use a lot of natural strength. Because there is no oil you have to use brute force.

2. Seeking the Lord like Moses did, is what advances you in ministry.

And Samuel said unto the people, IT IS THE LORD THAT ADVANCED MOSES and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.

1 Samuel 12:6

Pastors who do not seek the Lord do not move forward in the ministry. Many men of God do not wait on God. They have no time to seek the Lord’s face. It was when Moses turned aside to the burning bush that his life changed. Turning aside from your normal activities to seek the Lord is what you need to do to build a mega church.

Seeking the Lord is what advances you in the ministry. Moses was advanced from Exodus 3:1 (where he was at the backside of the desert) to Exodus 7:1 (where he was like a god to Pharaoh) to Exodus 11: 3 (where he was very great).

3. Moses advanced from the backside of the desert into world prominence by seeking God at the burning bush.

Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priest of Midian: and HE LED THE FLOCK TO THE BACKSIDE OF THE DESERT, and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb.



Exodus 3:1

4. Moses advanced and became a god to Pharaoh.

And the Lord said unto Moses, See, I HAVE MADE THEE A GOD TO PHARAOH: and Aaron thy brother shall be thy prophet.

Exodus 7:1

5. Moses advanced and became very great.

And the Lord gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians. MOREOVER THE MAN MOSES WAS VERY GREAT in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh’s servants, and in the sight of the people.

Exodus 11:3





CHAPTER 13




The “Bacenta, Basonta, Batenta Proliferation” Campaign




And if they were all one member, WHERE WERE THE BODY?

1 Corinthians 12:19

A “Bacenta” is a word coined for small groups that are brought to church by buses. A bacenta can be defined as a branch church, a cell, a fellowship, a department, a unit, a prayer group or a ministry in the church. Notice the scripture above. If your church does not have many sub-divisions which are brought to church on Sunday by buses, it has no substance. It is not a beautiful church. Your church can be beautifully adorned with many sub-divisions, cells, branches or bacentas.

A “Basonta” is another word coined for the small groups that work only on Sundays and are brought to church by buses. A “Basonta” can be defined as a branch church, a cell, a fellowship, a department, a unit, a prayer group or a ministry in the church that works only on Sundays. There are many people in a church that can only contribute to God’s work on a Sunday.

This is a formidable group whose contribution must be recognised, accepted and encouraged. You must develop basontas in the church. The Basonta army are the Sunday workers. Not everyone will be able to come to church on Tuesday, Wednesday or Friday. There are those who will only show up on Sundays and you must make the most of them. You must encourage basontas in your church and you will have numerous buses bringing Sunday workers to the church to receive from the word of God.

A “Batenta” is yet another word coined for small groups that are brought to church by taxis. A “Batenta” can be defined as any individuals or groups within the church, whether a cell, a fellowship, a department, a unit, a prayer group or a ministry that have to be gathered into the service through taxis, Uber or any other such service. There are wealthy members who can sponsor a taxi to pick up members. You must encourage batentas in your church and you will have numerous sponsored taxis bringing people to the church to receive the word of God.

1. If there are no Bacentas, Basontas and Batentas in the church, there is a big problem, there is a big deficiency and there is a big failure. “Where were the body?” is the big question to ask if there are no branches. The body simply does not exist when there are no branches! Your ministry does not have a “body” when your ministry does not have branches. The eyes, the liver, the kidney, the heart and the stomach are all branches within the body. If these branches did not exist, there would simply be no “body”.

For the body is not one member, but many. If the foot shall say, because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body? And if the ear shall say, because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?

But now hath God set the members every one of them in the body, as it hath pleased him. And if they were all one member, WHERE WERE THE BODY?

1 Corinthians 12:14-19

2. Branching is the formation of a complex “body” and beautiful “body”. Without Bacentas, Basontas and Batentas in the church, there is no beauty to the body of Christ. The body of Christ is beautiful because there are many different aspects and parts to it. It is the cells, the branches, the bacentas, the units, the basontas and the batentas that make up the beauty of the church.

I HAVE MADE HIM FAIR BY THE MULTITUDE OF HIS BRANCHES: so that all the trees of Eden, that were in the garden of God, envied him.

Ezekiel 31:9

3. Every Bacenta, Basonta or Batenta in the church no matter how big or small has a contribution to make to the body. Every joint supplies something that makes the body work better. Every group within the church is important. Forming more groups, more branches and more units will always make your church more substantial.

From whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which EVERY JOINT SUPPLIETH, according to the effectual working in the measure of every part, maketh increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love.

Ephesians 4:16

4. Organising Bacentas, Basontas and Batentas in the church is the prelude to the Gathering Service. Gathering is the “recovering of the remnants” - the Bacentas, Basontas and Batentas in the church. To gather Bacentas, Basontas and Batentas in the church is to gather the remnant of God’s people.

And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set his hand again the second time to RECOVER THE REMNANT OF HIS PEOPLE, which shall be left, from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from Pathros, and from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea.

And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.

Isaiah 11:11-12

5. All Bacentas, Basontas and Batentas in the church must gather at Gathering Services so that the people are encouraged and blessed. The prophecy is clear. Christians go from strength to strength when they come to church.

THEY GO FROM STRENGTH TO STRENGTH, EVERY ONE OF THEM APPEARS before God in Zion.

Psalms 84:7 (NASB)

6. Bacentas, Basontas and Batentas are the branching out that Jesus commanded. Jesus said we should go out and preach everywhere. Preaching everywhere creates Bacentas, Basontas and Batentas in the church. Preaching everywhere creates branch churches. More Bacentas, Basontas and Batentas in the church are an indication that you have reached out from your home base.

And he said unto them, go ye into ALL THE WORLD, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned.

And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.

So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God.

And they went forth, and PREACHED EVERY WHERE, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following. Amen.

Mark 16:15-20





CHAPTER 14


The “Buildings” Campaign





And I will bring them out from the people, and gather them from the countries, and WILL BRING THEM TO THEIR OWN LAND, and feed them upon the mountains of Israel by the rivers, and in all the inhabited places of the country.

I will feed them IN A GOOD PASTURE, AND UPON THE HIGH MOUNTAINS OF ISRAEL shall their fold be: there shall they lie in a good fold, and in a fat pasture shall they feed upon the mountains of Israel.



Ezekiel 34:13-14

The church “Buildings” Campaign is to ensure that every church has its own building. Many pastors are happy to rent premises for their churches. This does not allow a church to develop properly. It is important to have your own building. A building makes you permanent. A building establishes your ministry. Building churches is biblical.

1. Every sheep deserves to be in its own land; every church deserves to have its own building!



And I will bring them out from the people, and gather them from the countries, and WILL BRING THEM TO THEIR OWN LAND, and feed them upon the mountains of Israel by the rivers, and in all the inhabited places of the country.

I will feed them IN A GOOD PASTURE, AND UPON THE HIGH MOUNTAINS OF ISRAEL shall their fold be: there shall they lie in a good fold, and in a fat pasture shall they feed upon the mountains of Israel.



Ezekiel 34:13-14

2. You become a good man when you build a church. You deserve a miracle when you build a church. The centurion deserved a miracle because he built a synagogue for the Jews. When you build a church building you deserve the miracle of church growth.

The centurion heard of Jesus and sent some elders of the Jews to him, asking him to come and heal his servant. When they came to Jesus, they pleaded earnestly with him, “THIS MAN DESERVES TO HAVE YOU DO THIS, BECAUSE HE LOVES OUR NATION AND HAS BUILT OUR SYNAGOGUE.

Luke 7:3-5 (NIV)

3. Building churches is the only project that Jesus Christ is doing.

And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I WILL BUILD MY CHURCH; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.

Matthew 16:18

4. A church building establishes, strengthens, settles and perfects a church.

But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you PERFECT, STABLISH, STRENGTHEN, SETTLE you.

1 Peter 5:10

5. Solomon, the wisest man who ever lived, used his wisdom to build a church building. Solomon was the wisest man on earth and he is famous for building Solomon’s Temple. Are you wise? Then why don’t you build a church?

And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, when SOLOMON HAD BUILT THE TWO HOUSES, the house of the Lord, and the king’s house,

1 Kings 9:10

6. When you build a house for God, God will build a house for you. When David attempted to build a house for God, God built a house for him. This truth is stated very clearly in the Bible.

And it came to pass, when the king sat in his house, and the Lord had given him rest round about from all his enemies; That the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in an house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thine heart; for the Lord is with thee.

And it came to pass that night, that the word of the Lord came unto Nathan, saying, GO AND TELL MY SERVANT DAVID, THUS SAITH THE LORD, SHALT THOU BUILD ME AN HOUSE FOR ME TO DWELL IN? Whereas I have not dwelt in any house since the time that I brought up the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle.

In all the places wherein I have walked with all the children of Israel spake I a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, Why build ye not me an house of cedar? NOW THEREFORE SO SHALT THOU SAY UNTO MY SERVANT DAVID, THUS SAITH THE LORD OF HOSTS, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, to be ruler over my people, over Israel: And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, and have cut off all thine enemies out of thy sight, and have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth. Moreover I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as beforetime, And as since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies. ALSO THE LORD TELLETH THEE THAT HE WILL MAKE THEE AN HOUSE.

And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom.

2 Samuel 7:1-12

7. Building a church will lead to your personal prosperity.

Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your cieled houses, and this house lie waste? Now therefore thus saith the Lord of hosts; Consider your ways.

Ye have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not enough; ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes.

Thus saith the Lord of hosts; Consider your ways. Go up to the mountain, and bring wood, and build the house; and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, saith the Lord.

YE LOOKED FOR MUCH, AND, LO, IT CAME TO LITTLE; AND WHEN YE BROUGHT IT HOME, I DID BLOW UPON IT. WHY? SAITH THE LORD OF HOSTS. BECAUSE OF MINE HOUSE THAT IS WASTE, and ye run every man unto his own house. Therefore the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stayed from her fruit. And I called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the corn, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon that which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon all the labour of the hands.

Haggai 1:4-11





CHAPTER 15




The “Intimate Counselling” Campaign




The “Intimate Counselling” Campaign is an aggressive campaign to meet every single church member and counsel him or her personally. Many pastors are more like presidents and prime ministers and have lost the common touch. Many of the members of the church live in confusion and difficulty, not knowing what to do in their personal lives. They need a personal word from the pastor. They need to be counselled. They need direction. They need intimate counselling.

Thank God for the sermons every Sunday. But it is time to rise up and talk to the sheep on a one-on-one basis. There must be marriage counselling. There must be pre-marriage counselling. There must be crisis counselling. There must be issue-based counselling. There must be personal counselling. There must be interactions with many people.

1. In the absence of counselling, the sheep are troubled and subject to false prophets and deceptive counsel from other sources. False prophets have access to your sheep because you do not talk to them yourself. Many false prophets trouble your sheep when you do not counsel them.

Woe to the rebellious children, saith the Lord, THAT TAKE COUNSEL, BUT NOT OF ME; and that cover with a covering, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin:

Isaiah 30:1

For the idols have spoken vanity, and THE DIVINERS HAVE SEEN A LIE, and have told false dreams; they comfort in vain: therefore they went their way as a flock, THEY WERE TROUBLED, BECAUSE THERE WAS NO SHEPHERD.

Mine anger was kindled against the shepherds, and I punished the goats: for the Lord of hosts hath visited his flock the house of Judah, and hath made them as his goodly horse in the battle.

Zechariah 10:2-3

2. Through intimate counselling, the sheep are delivered from deception. Joshua and his team of elders were completely deceived because they did not ask for intimate counselling from the Lord. Joshua went on in presumption and signed a covenant with the enemy. This was one of the only mistakes that Joshua made in his ministry and it was because of a lack of intimate counselling.

And the men took of their victuals, and asked not counsel at the mouth of the Lord.

Joshua 9:14

3. Through intimate counselling God will be with the children. God will help the sheep in a special way through the counsel that you give to them.

Hearken now unto my voice, I WILL GIVE THEE COUNSEL, AND GOD SHALL BE WITH THEE: Be thou for the people to God-ward, that thou mayest bring the causes unto God:

Exodus 18:19

4. Through intimate counselling the sheep are turned away from evil.

But IF THEY HAD STOOD IN MY COUNSEL, and had caused my people to hear my words, then THEY SHOULD HAVE TURNED THEM FROM THEIR EVIL WAY, and from the evil of their doings.

Jeremiah 23:22

5. Without intimate counselling, the children are forced to counsel themselves with their own ideas and imaginations. When you counsel yourself you go backward and not forward.

But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear, BUT WALKED IN THE COUNSELS AND IN THE IMAGINATION OF THEIR EVIL HEART, and went backward, and not forward.

Jeremiah 7:24

6. Through the counselling of shepherds, the members will be grounded in the Word and have a deeper understanding. When there is no counselling there is no understanding.

For they are A NATION VOID OF COUNSEL, NEITHER IS THERE ANY UNDERSTANDING in them.

Deuteronomy 32:28





CHAPTER 16


The “Equipment and Technology” Campaign




I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty inventions.

Proverbs 8:12

It is important to use equipment and technology to make your church grow. The church needs to use technology and witty inventions in order to win the war. A church, which is not actively using equipment that has new technologies and inventions, is missing a wisdom key. King Uzziah was famous because of the inventions that helped him win his wars.

Equipment like musical instruments, projectors, videos, sound systems and special lights, radically change the church into a much nicer experience for everyone. It is important to have and to use all these different kinds of equipment and technology.

Moreover Uzziah had an host of fighting men, that went out to war by bands, according to the number of their account by the hand of Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the ruler, under the hand of Hananiah, one of the king’s captains. The whole number of the chief of the fathers of the mighty men of valour were two thousand and six hundred. And under their hand was an army, three hundred thousand and seven thousand and five hundred, that made war with mighty power, to help the king against the enemy. And UZZIAH PREPARED FOR THEM THROUGHOUT ALL THE HOST SHIELDS, AND SPEARS, AND HELMETS, AND HABERGEONS, AND BOWS, AND SLINGS TO CAST STONES. AND HE MADE IN JERUSALEM ENGINES, INVENTED BY CUNNING MEN, to be on the towers and upon the bulwarks, to shoot arrows and great stones withal. AND HIS NAME SPREAD FAR ABROAD; FOR HE WAS MARVELLOUSLY HELPED, TILL HE WAS STRONG.

2 Chronicles 26:11-15

The Use of Technology in Church Growth

1. Equipment and new technology must be used in knowing the state of the flock. Many pastors are unaware of how many people they have and where these people live. Many people have never looked at the map of their area to understand where their church is located and where the potential souls and members live. Every pastor needs a map and a planning table.

2. Equipment and new technology must be used in counting people. It is important to count the people because it is important to know where you stand. I remember one pastor who thought he had thousands of members in his church. When he finally counted the chairs in his hall, there were only eight hundred chairs downstairs and three hundred chairs in the balcony. He was shocked out of his socks because he thought his church was much bigger and he had been advertising that he had thousands of members.

3. Equipment and new technology can be used in finding out those who are not present in church on a particular day. Drone shots and photographs can be used to identify members.* Databases can sort out photographs and tell you who is present and who is absent. Many people do not use equipment and technology to run the church. To many people, equipment and technology should only be used to count money and take stock of items in a shop. All forms of technology must be brought into play to build God’s house.

4. New technology can be used in registering members and gathering data on every single member.* Are your members registered? Do you have a photograph of every single member of your church? Do you know where every single member lives? Do you have a map that shows where every single member of your church lives?

How come the bank knows where you live? How come the government knows everything about you? As a shepherd, you must know about your flock. “Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks, and look well to thy herds” (Proverbs 27:23).

5. New technology can be used in monitoring offerings, counting money and ensuring that there are no losses after people take offerings.

6. New technology can be used to analyse the trends of growth and decline in the church. It is important to notice the trends of attendance, trends of income and trends of expenditure in your church. These are some of the most revelatory graphs you will ever analyse.

7. Equipment and new technology can be used to improve security in a church service.

8. Equipment and new technology can be used to mobilise a whole army of church members. A large gathering can be mobilized through announcements that are made using modern technology.

9. Equipment and new technology can be used to disseminate information to church members. You can send Sunday sermons to everybody. You can send music, messages, adverts and announcements to everyone in your church. People do not have to come to church to get these things any more.

10. Equipment and new technology can be used to learn new strategies for church work from other ministries that are in other countries and other places. Every church can secretly learn from their brothers by using technology properly.

* This is subject to the data protection laws in your country.





CHAPTER 17




The “Shepherds’ Control” Campaign




And that because of FALSE BRETHREN UNAWARES BROUGHT IN, who came in privily to spy out our liberty which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage:

Galatians 2:4

There must be a campaign to control shepherds and pastors. There must be a campaign to remove false brethren and false pastors who have joined us without our knowing. The infiltration of false brethren is something that happens all the time. In the same way, false and unreal pastors are constantly joining the ranks of ministers of the gospel. You cannot have a church without monitoring and controlling the shepherds and pastors. There are basic requirements that pastors and shepherds must adhere to. When they fail to adhere to these basic requirements and guidelines, they must be removed.

Many people assume that a pastor is someone who will always do the right thing. Pastors are human beings with all sorts of problems. God uses us because He has chosen to have the treasure of pastoral ministry in earthen vessels. He could have chosen angels to pastor His church. But He chose ordinary, weak and failing human beings to be pastors. Because of the human failings of pastors, it is important that there is an active campaign to teach pastors, to control them, to check them, to transfer them around to enable them to do well.

Any church that does not have a systematic and regular campaign geared towards pastors and leaders will begin to lose control. Pastors have even more needs than ordinary members and need even more attention.

When do you have pastors’ meetings? When do you teach leaders and shepherds? Do you have camp meetings where higher topics are addressed? Pastors also need all the ordinary teachings that baby Christians get. Pastors have many marital problems and equally need counselling all the time. Pastors also need higher teachings about pastoral work. They need to learn about the skills and the campaigns that a pastor must undertake to build the church.

Poor shepherding skills are the primary reason why churches do not grow. Bad shepherds simply do not know what to do.

Poor or shabby shepherding is inferior shepherding. Shabby shepherding is pastoral work that is poorer in quality and performance than it should be. Shabby shepherding is characterized by neglect.

There is a low-down, thoughtless and shoddy version of pastoral work that must be avoided. Bad shepherding must no longer be tolerated. All variants of bad shepherding must cease.

Removing the Leaven

A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.

Galatians 5:9

Pastors must be removed, replaced and transferred constantly. Why is this? Many pastors develop a spirit of stagnation. They sort of get stuck in the mud and are unable to move forward practically. When you fail to move a pastor who should be moved, he transmits a bad spirit to all the people under him.

A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump! The deadness and lethargy of a backsliding pastor will be transmitted to the other pastors. A disloyal and critical spirit of the pastor will be transmitted to the rest of the pastors. This is why it is important to remove the leaven in the lump. Let me share with you some types of shepherds that must be removed from your system through your “Shepherding Control” Campaign.

1. Priests who do not work from their heart must go!

And now, O YE PRIESTS, THIS COMMANDMENT IS FOR YOU. If ye will not hear, and if ye will not lay it to heart, to give glory unto my name, saith the Lord of hosts, I will even send a curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings: yea, I HAVE CURSED THEM ALREADY, BECAUSE YE DO NOT LAY IT TO HEART.

Behold, I will corrupt your seed, and spread dung upon your faces, even the dung of your solemn feasts; and one shall take you away with it.

And ye shall know that I have sent this commandment unto you, that my covenant might be with Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. My covenant was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to him for the fear wherewith he feared me, and was afraid before my name.

The law of truth was in his mouth, and iniquity was not found in his lips: he walked with me in peace and equity, and did turn many away from iniquity.

For the priest’s lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth: for he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts.

Malachi 2:1-7

There are pastors who do not work from their hearts. Only things done from the heart have spiritual power. Jesus said, “There is nothing from without a man, that entering into him can defile him: but the things which come out of him, those are they that defile the man. If any man have ears to hear, let him hear. And when he was entered into the house from the people, his disciples asked him concerning the parable. And he saith unto them, are ye so without understanding also? Do ye not perceive, that whatsoever thing from without entereth into the man, it cannot defile him; because it entereth not into his heart, but into the belly, and goeth out into the draught, purging all meats? And he said, that which cometh out of the man, that defileth the man. For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, Thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness: all these evil things come from within, and defile the man.” (Mark 7:15-23).

You see, you cannot be defiled or affected by something that comes from outside. You are not affected by something that does not come from the heart. Ministry must come from your heart. Caring for people must come from your heart. The work of God must come from your heart otherwise it will not be effective.

My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways.

Proverbs 23:26

2. Worthless shepherds must go!

“Woe to the worthless shepherd, who deserts the flock! May the sword strike his arm and his right eye! May his arm be completely withered, his right eye totally blinded!”

Zechariah 11:17 (NIV)

Worthless and useless shepherds must go! A curse is spoken for worthless shepherds who abandon the sheep. Their right arms and their right eyes are cursed. Worthless shepherds who walk away from the work of God are to be cursed. Those who forget about the church and do not care much about the members are cursed. Worthless shepherds must be removed.

3. Foolish shepherds must go “together with their instruments”!

Foolish shepherds are people whose minds are not on the ministry. They are fools! They are unable to focus on important things and have left the serious work of God to chance.

And the Lord said unto me, Take unto thee yet the instruments of A FOOLISH SHEPHERD.

Zechariah 11:15

4. Non-visiting shepherds must go!

One of the basic duties of a shepherd is to visit the people. If a shepherd is no longer visiting the people, he must be removed.

For, lo, I will raise up A SHEPHERD IN THE LAND, WHICH SHALL NOT VISIT those that be cut off, neither shall seek the young one, nor heal that that is broken, nor feed that that standeth still: but he shall eat the flesh of the fat, and tear their claws in pieces.

Zechariah 11:16

5. Non-seeking shepherds must go!

Shepherds must seek for the sheep. They must step out of their comfort zones and diligently search for people who are missing. It is young ones who go astray. It is new Christians who easily fall away. Zechariah has prophesied that the shepherd who does not seek for the young must be removed.

For, lo, I will raise up A SHEPHERD in the land, which shall not visit those that be cut off, NEITHER SHALL SEEK THE YOUNG ONE, nor heal that that is broken, nor feed that that standeth still: but he shall eat the flesh of the fat, and tear their claws in pieces.

Zechariah 11:16

6. Shepherds who do not help people to move on must go.

For, lo, I will raise up a shepherd in the land, which shall not visit those that be cut off, neither shall seek the young one, nor heal that that is broken, nor FEED THAT THAT STANDETH STILL: but he shall eat the flesh of the fat, and tear their claws in pieces.

Zechariah 11:16

Many people are standing still in their lives. Many people’s lives are totally stagnant. There is no forward movement in spiritual things. There is no progress towards getting a beloved and there is no progress towards getting married. There is no progress towards prosperity. This is what happens when a sheep is standing still. God has called shepherds to help their sheep to move forward and out of stagnation. A shepherd must do anything to help the sheep advance in life. Advancing must be in all directions and in all aspects of life.

7. Sheep-eating shepherds must go!

For, lo, I will raise up A SHEPHERD in the land, which shall not visit those that be cut off, neither shall seek the young one, nor heal that that is broken, nor feed that that standeth still: but HE SHALL EAT THE FLESH of the fat, and tear their claws in pieces.

Zechariah 11:16

Shepherds who just eat up the sheep must be cleared out. There are people who are just bent on getting offerings from the sheep. There are people who only want to benefit from the people they lead. There are many people who are put in positions but do not really care for the people they have been appointed to care for.

I am sure you know that there are doctors who do not really care for their patients. They just want to make money from the practice of medicine. There are lawyers and judges who do not really care about the administration of justice. They just want to make money from their profession. There are politicians who do not really care about their countries. They just want to make money from the government and from politics.

In the same way, there are pastors who do not really care about the sheep. They just want to make money from the ministry.

8. Pitiless shepherds must go!

Whose possessors slay them, and hold themselves not guilty: and they that sell them say, blessed be the Lord; for I am rich: and THEIR OWN SHEPHERDS PITY THEM NOT.

Zechariah 11:5

There are shepherds who do not pity the sheep. It is your duty as a shepherd to feel for the sheep. You must have deep feelings as a good shepherd. If you do not have deep feelings for the sheep, you must resign immediately from shepherding work. You must feel sad about sad situations. You must feel sorry about sorry situations. You must feel happy about good news. You must feel what the sheep are feeling, if you are to be a good shepherd.

9. Evil shepherds must go!

Therefore thus saith the Lord God of Israel AGAINST THE PASTORS that feed my people; ye have scattered my flock, and driven them away, and have not visited them: behold, I WILL VISIT UPON YOU THE EVIL OF YOUR DOINGS, saith the Lord.

Jeremiah 23:2

The evil doings of a pastor have to do with his neglect of the sheep. If a pilot neglects his piloting and chats with his girlfriend instead of flying the plane safely he may end up killing a lot of people. The pilot’s neglect of his sacred duty is criminal. There are also shepherds who fail the sheep by neglecting their duty. The evil doings of a shepherd is his failure to visit, his failure to pray, his failure to counsel and his failure to interact with the sheep.

10. “Greedy dog” shepherds must go!

Yea, they are greedy dogs which can never have enough, and they are shepherds that cannot understand: they all look to their own way, every one for his gain, from his quarter.

Isaiah 56:11

Greedy dog shepherds are shepherds who are just trying to gain something from being pastors. Such people must be removed. The “Shepherding Control” Campaign must screen pastors to ensure that they are there because they love God and they love the sheep. People who have to be dragged to meetings must be removed. People who have to be coerced to care for people must be cleared out. Those whom we have to beg to attend two services must be removed. They transmit a spirit of lukewarmness and lethargy to other pastors.

11. “Dumb dog” shepherds who cannot bark must go! All who do not communicate must be removed. A dog which cannot bark is of no use!

All ye beasts of the field, come to devour, yea, all ye beasts in the forest. His watchmen are blind: they are all ignorant, THEY ARE ALL DUMB DOGS, THEY CANNOT BARK; sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber.

Isaiah 56:9-10

Some pastors can be called “dumb dog” shepherds. What is the use of a dog who cannot bark? No sound from the dogs! Such a dog is officially useless. You might as well have a cat! A “dumb dog” shepherd is a pastor who does not communicate well. Such people also cannot preach well. The prophet Isaiah called these people “dumb dogs”. Such people are not good missionaries. They are not good ambassadors. They do not stay in touch when you send them somewhere.

Pastors who do not communicate and relate well must be removed. The pastors whose preaching puts you to sleep must be removed. There are some pastors who lack oil, anointing and the presence of God. Their preaching is like salt-less food. You cannot tell exactly what is wrong with it but you know that it lacks something. These are dumb dogs. They are dry spiritually. They do not communicate! They do not relate!

12. Blind watchmen must go!

All ye beasts of the field, come to devour, yea, all ye beasts in the forest. HIS WATCHMEN ARE BLIND: they are all ignorant, they are all dumb dogs, they cannot bark; sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber.

Isaiah 56:9-10

Another type of problematic shepherds are those who are spiritually blind. They have no revelation. When you have the Spirit of revelation you are not blind. Things are revealed to you when you have the Spirit of revelation. When a person with a Spirit of revelation opens his mouth to speak, you can sense the entrance of light and the entrance of startling new knowledge.

Ordinary people wait for the things of God to be revealed to them. A shepherd must be a man of visions and dreams. How can you pastor the people of God without visions and dreams? One of the signs of the presence of God is the presence of visions and dreams. “I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh … and your young men shall see visions and your old men shall dream dreams.” (Acts 2:17 (AKJV)). The Holy Spirit’s presence always brings dreams and visions. Blind watchmen without the Holy Spirit must be removed.

13. Ignorant watchmen must go!

All ye beasts of the field, come to devour, yea, all ye beasts in the forest. HIS WATCHMEN are blind: THEY ARE ALL IGNORANT, they are all dumb dogs, they cannot bark; sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber.

Isaiah 56:9-10

Pastors must be filled with knowledge. Pastors must have many Bibles and many books. Pastors must speak with the knowledge of God. A leader must be one step ahead of the people that they lead. How can you be a shepherd of the sheep when you do not know the scriptures? What on earth are you talking about?





CHAPTER 18




The “Multiplication” Campaign




And out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of them that make merry: and I WILL MULTIPLY THEM, AND THEY SHALL NOT BE FEW; I will also glorify them, and they shall not be small.

Jeremiah 30:19

Multiplication is about reaching out and winning souls. We are destined to multiply. We shall not be few! Go ye into the world and preach to all nations. If you believe the word of God you will see the glory of multiplication and church growth.

1. Prophetically, you are destined to multiply.

And out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of them that make merry: and I WILL MULTIPLY THEM, and THEY SHALL NOT BE FEW;

I will also glorify them, and they shall not be small.

Jeremiah 30:19

2. The Holy Spirit will bring about multiplication and church growth to the level of three thousand.

Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and the same day there were added unto them about THREE THOUSAND SOULS.

Acts 2:41

3. The Holy Spirit will bring about multiplication and church growth to the level of five thousand.

Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed; and the number of the men was about FIVE THOUSAND.

Acts 4:4

4. The Holy Spirit will bring about noticeable multiplication and church growth.

And in those days, when THE NUMBER OF THE DISCIPLES WAS MULTIPLIED, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration.

Acts 6:1

5. The Holy Spirit will bring multiplication until the whole city comes to church.

And the next Sabbath day CAME ALMOST THE WHOLE CITY TOGETHER to hear the word of God.

Acts 13:44

6. God has plans to fill every space in the church with men.

For, behold, I am for you, and I will turn unto you, and ye shall be tilled and sown: And I will multiply men upon you, all the house of Israel, EVEN ALL OF IT: AND THE CITIES SHALL BE INHABITED, and the wastes shall be builded: And I will multiply upon you man and beast; and they shall increase and bring fruit: and I will settle you after your old estates, and will do better unto you than at your beginnings: and ye shall know that I am the Lord. Yea, I will cause men to walk upon you, even my people Israel; and they shall possess thee, and thou shalt be their inheritance, and thou shalt no more henceforth bereave them of men.

Ezekiel 36:9-12

AS THE HOST OF HEAVEN CANNOT BE NUMBERED, NEITHER THE SAND OF THE SEA MEASURED: SO WILL I MULTIPLY THE SEED OF DAVID MY SERVANT, and the Levites that minister unto me.

Jeremiah 33:22

7. Multiplication is a result of fruitfulness. Fruitfulness leads to multiplication. Being fruitful is an act of obedience. It is not a blessing that descends on you from heaven. It is a command! Be fruitful!

And God blessed them, saying, BE FRUITFUL, AND MULTIPLY, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.…. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, BE FRUITFUL, AND MULTIPLY, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

Genesis 1:22, 28

8. The blessings of Jacob are the blessings of fruitfulness and multiplication. You will be multiplied and a company of nations will come out of you.

And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his name Israel. And God said unto him, I AM GOD ALMIGHTY: BE FRUITFUL AND MULTIPLY; A NATION AND A COMPANY OF NATIONS SHALL BE OF THEE, and kings shall come out of thy loins; and the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land.

Genesis 35:10-12





CHAPTER 19




The “Uncles and Aunties” Campaign




But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven.

Matthew 19:14

The “Aunties and Uncles” Campaign is where church members turn themselves into aunties and uncles and visit young children in school. Very young children can be won to the Lord. Most people will not change when they grow up. Most people turn into old kings who can no longer be admonished, talked to, witnessed to, advised, counselled or helped.

Better is a poor and a wise child than an old and foolish king, who will no more be admonished.

Ecclesiastes 4:13

Real evangelism is for the young. It is young people who will turn to the Lord. When Jesus walked in Galilee, He witnessed to young people. All the disciples were young people. All the older Pharisees and Sadducees cursed Him, hated Him and rejected Him. Older people are not easy to win! It is only unwise pastors who focus on winning the older and the elder. The older and the elder that you will have will be those who grow up with you.

When I was in secondary school, a man called Uncle James visited me regularly. He was not my biological uncle but he became an “uncle” to me because of his continuous interest in me. He would visit me, counsel me and teach me the word of God.

Uncle James explained salvation to me. He told me why Jesus died on the cross for me. He told me “Without the shedding of blood there would be no forgiveness of sins, and that is why Jesus had to die on the cross for you”. He told me that whenever I did not understand a scripture or a hard truth, I should just “Put it in the wardrobe” and go back for it after a long time. He told me that there were questions I would not be able to answer for a long time, but one day I would understand them all. He made me trust in the word of God and he became an “uncle” to me.

Through the ministry of “Uncles and Aunties” young people will be brought to church. Unfortunately, many pastors despise the young. They say, “We want real souls. We don’t want children. Bring real people to church! These are just kids! These children don’t have anything and don’t know anything.” But that is not how Jesus was! Jesus was interested in the young. Anyone who is interested in the very young will experience mighty church growth.

If you are sent out as a missionary, you must forget about the old people of that city. Reach out to the young. Emphasize on the young. Those are the convertible souls. Not everyone can be transformed and changed by the word of God.

You need to have to have a ministry of “uncles and aunties” where you reach out to children who are much younger than you are. Through those children you will experience growth. You will see the double mega missionary church!





CHAPTER 20




The “Understanding” Campaign




The “Understanding” Campaign is all about deepening the understanding of the ordinary Christian. When people do not understand things, they are easily offended. When understanding is deep, they are rooted and grounded and not easy to uproot. Do you want your members to be easily uprooted? Do you want your members to be scattered? Certainly not! Then start an Understanding Campaign! Organise classes to deepen the understanding of the people. Start a Bible school. Teach the Word at every opportunity.

Do not take it for granted that the members know anything. Many Christians do not know the basics of salvation. Many Christians do not know the basic doctrines of Christianity. You must fight for a deeper understanding otherwise your church members will be blown away with the very next wind. Jesus was very clear on this truth. When there is no root, there is no understanding! The lack of understanding causes Christians to be uprooted easily.

Look at the amazing responsibility that God gives the shepherds to bring understanding to the sheep.

1. The understanding campaign prevents the sheep from being snatched away by the wicked one.

When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and UNDERSTANDETH IT NOT, then cometh THE WICKED ONE, AND CATCHETH AWAY that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the way side.

Matthew 13:19

2. The understanding campaign must be taken up by the shepherds. Feeding the sheep must be done with the aim of deepening their knowledge and understanding.

And I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which SHALL FEED YOU WITH KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING.

Jeremiah 3:15

3. The understanding campaign will cause the flock to increase. Feeding the sheep properly to deepen their knowledge and understanding will cause the flock to multiply and increase.

And I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which SHALL FEED YOU WITH KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING.

AND IT SHALL COME TO PASS, WHEN YE BE MULTIPLIED AND INCREASED in the land, in those days, saith the Lord, they shall say no more, The ark of the covenant of the Lord: neither shall it come to mind: neither shall they remember it; neither shall they visit it; neither shall that be done any more.

Jeremiah 3:15-16

4. The understanding campaign is what determines the fruitfulness and usefulness of a Christian. As the Christian understands the Word, he bears fruit. As he lacks understanding, he becomes barren. More understanding, more fruits!

But he that received seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and UNDERSTANDETH IT; WHICH ALSO BEARETH FRUIT, AND BRINGETH FORTH, SOME AN HUNDREDFOLD, SOME SIXTY, SOME THIRTY.

Matthew 13:23





CHAPTER 21


The “Swollen Sunday” Campaign




While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

Genesis 8:22

Swollen Sunday is a seasonal outreach that involves that entire congregation. Most churches have outreach ministries and groups that involve a few people. Swollen Sunday is an outreach that is different because it involves every single person in the church. When everyone joins in the outreach, you will get very different results. Most pastors do not involve the whole church in outreaches.

Swollen Sunday is a Sunday where the whole church is mobilised to win souls and invite people to church. This great effort must not be exerted every Sunday, otherwise the people will get tired of winning souls. Every few weeks, a Swollen Sunday must be organised where the whole church rises with great fervour and soul winning passion to win the lost at any cost.

And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that BRINGETH FORTH HIS FRUIT IN HIS SEASON; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.

Psalms 1:3

You will notice that fruits are not borne all the time. Fruits come in a season and then they are gone. The fruits of your church’s evangelism, soul winning and visitation will not be borne every Sunday. But they will be borne seasonally.

God has set an eternal principle in the earth; the principle of cycles and seasons. He has decided that He will never interrupt the cycles and seasons of seedtime and harvest. The cycle of seedtime and harvest was interrupted by the great flood. However, after the flood, it was decided there would be no more interruptions.

The church must enjoy cycles and growth. It is not possible to sustain great efforts for a long time. You must exert a great effort and then rest. And then exert another great effort and then rest again! This is exactly how the heart is able to keep on beating for so long. It exerts a great effort and then rests absolutely and totally. Then it pumps with a great big effort and then rests absolutely again.

Through this cycle of great exertion and great rest, the heart is the most hardworking part of your body, beating as many as eighty times a minute from the time you were born till today.

It is time for you to develop a cycle of massive outreach, soul winning and invitations that involve the entire church. Stop restricting outreaches to little groups. Start involving the whole church in reaching out, winning the lost and turning souls to the Lord. Every single church member will be blessed as they help to build the double mega missionary church.





CHAPTER 22




The “Sheep Seeking” Campaign




WOE BE UNTO THE PASTORS that destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture! saith the Lord. Therefore thus saith the Lord God of Israel against the pastors that feed my people; Ye have scattered my flock, and driven them away, AND HAVE NOT VISITED THEM: behold, I will visit upon you the evil of your doings, saith the Lord.

Jeremiah 23:1-2

Seeking the sheep and searching for God’s people who are missing is a cardinal sign of a true shepherd. Without the love of God, you will not seek for lost, weak and struggling sheep.

Seeking the sheep is one of the most important jobs of a pastor. There must be a campaign to actively visit the sheep and to seek them that are lost. In the book of Ezekiel, we see a direct prophecy against shepherds because they did not seek for the lost sheep. God wants His shepherds to seek people who are lost, weak and struggling to keep up. It is a key duty of a pastor to visit his people.

Many pastors are unable to keep up with a schedule of visiting. They start to visit members and then begin to falter. Because pastors also have a duty to reach out in the multiplication campaign, they are often befuddled with the numbers of people that have to be visited.

God is angry with many pastors and shepherds. God is angry with shepherds because they do not visit people nor search for them. Searching for people involves energy, time and money.

The diseased have ye not strengthened, neither have ye healed that which was sick, neither have ye bound up that which was broken, neither have ye brought again that which was driven away, NEITHER HAVE YE SOUGHT THAT WHICH WAS LOST; but with force and with cruelty have ye ruled them. And they were scattered, because there is no shepherd: and they became meat to all the beasts of the field, when they were scattered. My sheep wandered through all the mountains, and upon every high hill: yea, my flock was scattered upon all the face of the earth, and NONE DID SEARCH OR SEEK AFTER THEM.

Therefore, YE SHEPHERDS, hear the word of the Lord; As I live, saith the Lord God, surely because my flock became a prey, and my flock became meat to every beast of the field, because there was no shepherd, NEITHER DID MY SHEPHERDS SEARCH FOR MY FLOCK, but the shepherds fed themselves, and fed not my flock;

Therefore, O YE SHEPHERDS, hear the word of the Lord; Thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I am against the shepherds; and I WILL REQUIRE MY FLOCK AT THEIR HAND, and cause them to cease from feeding the flock; neither shall the shepherds feed themselves any more; for I will deliver my flock from their mouth, that they may not be meat for them.

Ezekiel 34:4-10

The Great Visitation Strategy

A strategy to improve the “Sheep Seeking” Campaign is to implement the “Great Visitation”. The Great Visitation involves choosing a day or two in the year when everyone in the church is visited. Instead of having a schedule of visiting a few people every week, the whole church can be massively organised to visit every missing person on a special day.

This is the Great Visitation! Through the Great Visitation, you will cover many more people. Most people can be reached through this massive Great Visitation. Many of your first time visitors, missing church members, weak Christians and new converts can be visited massively by this Great Visitation.

When I was in medical school, I learnt about something called the National Immunisation Day. On that day, the whole country was mobilized for the immunisation of children. I asked why this National Immunisation Day was being held. “Are children not immunised at birth and at the various clinics?” Yes, indeed, children were being immunized in clinics all over the country. So, why the need for the National Immunisation Day?

That is when I found out that having a special immunisation day in which every child in the country was encouraged to be immunised caused many more children to be covered by immunisation. A special day of immunisation boosted the coverage by many more times.

This is the principle behind the Great Visitation strategy. Have a special visitation day for the whole church! This will boost your visitation coverage by many more times. Many more people in your church will receive a visit by a pastor or a shepherd.





CHAPTER 23


The “Sunday Management” Campaign




And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, Praising God, and having favour with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved.

Acts 2:46-47

The scripture above gives the impression that these people really loved being in church. Church was so popular that they went every day and not once a week. I was shocked when I visited a church that had services every other week. Indeed, Christianity has been watered down by the modern church.

It is important to manage the Sunday event in such a way as to accomplish the goal of the service. The goal of a church service is to worship God and to hear from Him. We must wait on the Lord. It is those who wait on the Lord who renew their strength. It is not those who rush in and out of church who renew their strength.

But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength;

they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.

Isaiah 40:31

Today, many modern churches have shortened their services so that they can give their members a quick nice experience in the church. In the name of convenience, many churches have backslidden! Today, backslidden Christian congregations are dictating to the pastors how long a church service should be. The Sunday service must be managed beautifully so that everyone who comes there has a great spiritual experience. Church must be run so well that people do not want to go home.

You must not shorten your church service to suit the unspiritual people in the church. You must not create unacceptably short and quick church services to suit wicked people who do not love God. Demons must not dictate how long we should stay in church. Many demons are screaming “Too long, too long. Let the people go home and rest.”

What is the aim of a church service? Why should a backslidden Christian tell me how long I should preach? Why should those who do not love God dictate how quickly a church service must be brought to a close? It is those who hang around who get affected by the presence of God. Those who tarry long at the wine are those who are affected by the wine. Those who have a quick sip of alcoholic wine during the Holy Communion are not affected by the wine. Those who tarry long at the wine are those who get drunk and overwhelmed by alcohol.

Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? who hath contentions? who hath babbling? who hath wounds without cause? who hath redness of eyes? They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed wine.

Proverbs 23:29-30

Go around the world today and you will find one fast song (praises) and two slow songs (worship) followed by a quick twenty-five minute sermon and a hurried offering time followed by pressurized speedy announcements. Pastors pride themselves in being in and out of a service in record time. Many church services do not last more than ninety minutes. (You wonder if the pastors are aircrafts doing a quick turnaround in a transit airport.) Such services are held to satisfy the consciences of people who no longer have time for God. Do not be a pastor who is led by backslidden big shots! These people who put pressure on you to change your church services will not even support the ministry with their finances.

Today, questionable Christian musical artistes are found on stage promoting their albums and musical careers at the expense of having quality worship and praise. Many characters who call themselves worship ministers are actually hustling musicians seeking for a little fame and few more sales of their music.

Listen carefully!

Sunday management of the church service is not the same as the destruction of true worship on Sundays. Sunday management of a church service is not the same as the taking away of our quality time with God. The only purpose for us being created is to work for God. The reason for our creation is to serve our Maker.

Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honour and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created.

Revelation 4:11

People have varied experiences when they attend a church. Some have bad experiences in the toilet, some do not understand what is being said, some members feel too hot and some people feel too cold. Some people like the music, some people do not like it. Some enjoy everything but do not have anyone to talk to. All aspects of the Sunday service must be managed so that no one has a negative experience in the church.





CHAPTER 24




The “Testimony” Campaign




I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.

Psalms 119:46

The “Testimonies” Campaign is to encourage testimonies to be regularly declared before the congregation. The children must not be ashamed to declare what God has done for them.

The “Testimonies” Campaign is to ensure that Christians hear testimonies of God’s goodness all the time. It is important for Christians to see that God is real. Through real testimonies from real people, you have the opportunity to charge the congregation with faith. Through real testimonies from real people, you have the opportunity to overcome the devil in the congregation. Through real testimonies from real people, you have the opportunity to counsel the congregation. Hearing testimonies over and over makes the congregation excited about the living God that we serve. Let us look at the amazing benefits of testimonies

When it comes to church growth, testimonies are more valuable than money. Testimonies change everything about a church.

I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all riches.

Psalms 119:14

1. Testimonies will cause Christians to overcome the devil. We overcome the devil through testimonies. Christians in the church will overcome the devil through the testimonies they give. When a Christian gives a testimony about how his life has changed, he cannot easily go back to his “vomit.” By giving the testimony, they overcome the devil in a very real way.

And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.

Revelation 12:11

2. Testimonies will counsel the sheep. When they hear someone’s testimony about how they overcame, the sheep will know what to do.

THY TESTIMONIES ALSO ARE my delight and MY COUNSELLORS.

Psalms 119:24

3. Testimonies will bring great joy into the church. Christians enjoy testimonies.

Thy TESTIMONIES have I taken as an heritage for ever: for THEY ARE THE REJOICING OF MY HEART.

Psalms 119:111

4. Testimonies will make the sheep have a deeper understanding of the Word. People have a greater understanding when they hear ordinary people giving testimonies.

I HAVE MORE UNDERSTANDING than all my teachers: FOR THY TESTIMONIES ARE MY MEDITATION.

Psalms 119:99

5. Testimonies will make people put wickedness away from their lives.

THOU PUTTEST AWAY ALL THE WICKED of the earth like dross: THEREFORE I LOVE THY TESTIMONIES.

Psalms 119:119

6. Testimonies will guide the sheep. The sheep will learn to stick to the way prescribed by the testimonies.

I have stuck unto thy testimonies: O Lord, put me not to shame.

Psalms 119:31

7. Wonderful testimonies will be remembered by the sheep. Everyone remembers amazing testimonies of God’s goodness. People remember the testimonies because they are wonderful. Sometimes, people remember testimonies even more than the Word that is preached.

Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them.

Psalms 119:129

8. Testimonies will be a blessing to the whole church. Testimonies will be a blessing to the person who gives it.

Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek him with the whole heart.

Psalms 119:2





CHAPTER 25


The “Telepastoring” Campaign




But the Comforter, which is the HOLY GHOST, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your REMEMBRANCE, whatsoever I have said unto you.

John 14:26

Telepastoring is the art of calling up members before church and reminding them of the need for them to come to the house of the Lord. If you have an army of people whose work it is to telephone Christians on Saturday night and encourage them to come to church, your church will definitely grow. You will be surprised that many Christians have forgotten that they need to even go to church.

The work of the Holy Spirit is to remind Christians of what they already know. The scripture above is clear. The work of the Holy Spirit is to bring things into your mind. A good pastor must not assume that the church members will remember to come to church or to serve the Lord. As you are prompted by the Holy Spirit, you must remind Christians of the need for them to come to church. You must remind Christians of the need to serve the Lord. Whenever you do this, you are working hand in hand with the Holy Spirit.

Goals of Telepastoring

1. Telepastoring makes you a good minister of the gospel. Telepastoring is the art of reminding the Christians of their duties and obligations. Call up your members! Stir them up! Remind them to come to church! Tell them why fellowshipping is important. Do not assume that they know what is right.

IF THOU PUT THE BRETHREN IN REMEMBRANCE of these things, THOU SHALT BE A GOOD MINISTER OF JESUS CHRIST, nourished up in the words of faith and of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained.

1 Timothy 4:6

2. Telepastoring is an apostolic command. The apostle Paul gave an apostolic command to Timothy to remind his members of the right thing to do. An obedient son is likely to see more church growth than a proud pastor who can no longer be admonished. Paul had a son he could command and instruct. That person was Timothy. It is no wonder that Timothy’s church was one of the largest in his time.

OF THESE THINGS PUT THEM IN REMEMBRANCE, charging them before the Lord that they strive not about words to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers.

2 Timothy 2:14

3. Telepastoring will stir up the minds of those who are called. People can be stirred up when you talk to them. When you speak with excitement about the approaching church service, they will be stirred up to meet you in church.

This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you; in both WHICH I STIR UP YOUR PURE MINDS by way of remembrance:

2 Peter 3:1

4. Telepastoring puts the people in remembrance. In other words, telepastoring reminds people of what is important. When you call your church members on Saturday night, you remind them of how important it is to be in church on Sunday.

Wherefore I will not be negligent to PUT YOU ALWAYS IN REMEMBRANCE of these things, though ye know them, and be established in the present truth.

2 Peter 1:12

5. Telepastoring must be done as long as you are a pastor. Telepastoring is appropriate and necessary in every church and ministry. Telepastoring will always be a relevant ministry no matter how big or small your church is. Calling up people is what is appropriate. Paul said he would remind people as long as he was on earth.

Yea, I THINK IT MEET, AS LONG AS I AM IN THIS TABERNACLE, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance;

2 Peter 1:13





CHAPTER 26




The “Tangerine” Campaign




I therefore so run, not as uncertainly; so fight I, not as one that beateth the air:

1 Corinthians 9:26

Where do I start implementing the revelation on making my church grow? There are so many areas that I could develop. There are so many things that I could do. Should I start with prayer? Should I start with a choir? I realise that all things work together for good but I just do not know where to start from.

Indeed, there are times that the many aspects of church growth are so varied that you are confused as to where to start and where to end. The “Tangerine Segment” will help you to start somewhere. The “Tangerine Segment” will help you to define a few areas that you can emphasize on. What are “Tangerine Segments”?

The Tangerine Segments are the easy to define groups or areas in your church. A tangerine has segments that can easily be defined. These are the tangerine segments. Perhaps each tangerine has fourteen or fifteen major segments. These segments are easy to see. The tangerine segments are areas that you can emphasize on and more easily make the church grow. In God’s wisdom, He has divided a tangerine into fourteen or fifteen easily defined segments. As each segment grows, the entire tangerine becomes bigger.

The apostle Paul was clear, “I do not fight uncertainly. I do not fight a vague, difficult to define enemy. I do not beat the air. I am not giving blows in the air. I am fighting with a clear target in view.”

Many people are trying to make their churches grow and do not know where to start. There is no need to punch blows into the air. There is no need to go around shadowboxing. Take your tangerine segment (naturally formed groups and associations in the church) and make them grow bigger.

The tangerine segments show you the big areas that are easy to define. In every church, some aspects of the church are easy to see. For instance, the people who belong to the choir may be one tangerine segment. The people who live close to the church may be one easy to define segment. The ushers may be another easy to define group in the church. These groups may have activities that could make them grow on their own. If your choir is very large, your church will be very large. If your ushering team is very large, your church will be very large. If you have a large neighbourhood force, your church is likely to be large.

Look into your church and ask yourself, “What are the groups that are easy to define and what are the groups that people naturally congregate into?” Those are your tangerine segments! You are not likely to have so many of such groups. Instead of fighting the air and not knowing what exactly to target, take out the tangerine segments and emphasize on growing these naturally forming groups.

The tangerine revelation is to use the easily defined pillars and segments of the church as engines of growth. Instead of trying to make everything work, try to make your tangerine segments grow. That is a good starting point.





CHAPTER 27




The “Gathering Bus” Campaign




THEY GO FROM STRENGTH TO STRENGTH, EVERY ONE OF THEM APPEARS before God in Zion.

Psalms 84:7 (NASB)

The “Gathering” Campaign is to assemble all members of all groups together in one place. All through the Bible you will see God’s efforts to gather His people together. You will see that God desires us to make the effort to assemble our members together in one place to receive supernatural blessings.

1. Gathering is the recovering of the remnant of the people. It is important to recover a remnant from the branches that have been started. You can see how God assembles the remnants of His people from the branches in Assyria, Egypt, Pathros, Cush, Elam, Shinar, Hamath and the islands of the sea.

And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set his hand again the second time TO RECOVER THE REMNANT OF HIS PEOPLE, WHICH SHALL BE LEFT, FROM ASSYRIA, AND FROM EGYPT, AND FROM PATHROS, AND FROM CUSH, AND FROM ELAM, AND FROM SHINAR, AND FROM HAMATH, AND FROM THE ISLANDS OF THE SEA.

And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.

Isaiah 11:11-12

2. Every time the people gather, they are strengthened.

THEY GO FROM STRENGTH TO STRENGTH, EVERY ONE OF THEM APPEARS before God in Zion.

Psalms 84:7 (NASB)

3. Gathering is to make the people hear the Word. Gather the sheep into one large gathering so that they can receive the Word with power.

Specially the day that thou stoodest before the Lord thy God in Horeb, when the Lord said unto me, GATHER ME THE PEOPLE TOGETHER, and I WILL MAKE THEM HEAR MY WORDS, that they may learn to fear me all the days that they shall live upon the earth, and that they may teach their children.

Deuteronomy 4:10

4. Gathering must be done from far and wide. You must overcome all the difficulties that prevent people from being gathered. Do not give or accept excuses! Rise up and gather them! Smite the waves! Let the deeps of the river dry up! Solve the transportation problems and gather the people. Gather them until there is no space or place for them.

I WILL HISS FOR THEM, AND GATHER THEM; for I have redeemed them: and they shall increase as they have increased. And I will sow them among the people: and they shall remember me in far countries; and they shall live with their children, and turn again.

I will bring them again also out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon;

AND PLACE SHALL NOT BE FOUND FOR THEM.

AND HE SHALL PASS THROUGH THE SEA WITH AFFLICTION,

AND SHALL SMITE THE WAVES IN THE SEA, AND ALL THE DEEPS OF THE RIVER SHALL DRY UP: and the pride of Assyria shall be brought down, and the sceptre of Egypt shall depart away. And I will strengthen them in the LORD; and they shall walk up and down in his name, saith the LORD.

Zechariah 10:8-12

5. God will gather the people that remember Him and will strengthen them in the Lord.

I WILL HISS FOR THEM, AND GATHER THEM; for I have redeemed them: and they shall increase as they have increased. And I will sow them among the people: and THEY SHALL REMEMBER ME IN FAR COUNTRIES; and they shall live with their children, and turn again.

I will bring them again also out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon; and place shall not be found for them.

And he shall pass through the sea with affliction, and shall smite the waves in the sea, and all the deeps of the river shall dry up: and the pride of Assyria shall be brought down, and the sceptre of Egypt shall depart away.

AND I WILL STRENGTHEN THEM IN THE LORD; and they shall walk up and down in his name, saith the LORD.

Zechariah 10:8-12

6. Gathering the people is to counteract the scattering caused by devils. When the enemies of God see that there is no shepherd they come to scatter the people. The gathering of the people is the exact opposite of what the devil does. Gathering is an anti-demonic activity. Counteract the works of demons in the church by gathering the crowds.

Then he said, I DID SEE ALL ISRAEL SCATTERED UPON THE MOUNTAINS, AS SHEEP THAT HAVE NO SHEPHERD: and the Lord said, These have no master; let them return therefore every man to his house in peace.

2 Chronicles 18: 16

7. Gathering of the people causes the land to be subdued and brought under control. Large gatherings of God’s people bring the nation under control. The presence of God’s people subdues the land.

And THE WHOLE CONGREGATION OF THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL ASSEMBLED TOGETHER AT SHILOH, and set up the tabernacle of the congregation there. And THE LAND WAS SUBDUED BEFORE THEM.

Joshua 18:1





CHAPTER 28




The “Organized Creative Arts” Campaign




Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard MUSICK and DANCING.

Luke 15:25

Creative arts tap into the creativity, the talents and the gifts of the ordinary church member. The “Organized Creative Arts” Campaign is to galvanize the church into music, dancing and drama. Everyone in the church loves music and dancing. The few talented singers and dancers you see are those who have been nurtured and encouraged by the leadership of the church.

You will be surprised at the life, the joy and the happiness that comes into a church when you encourage large-scale music, dancing and drama. All the church members who are involved in creative arts love to display their talents to everyone. They love for the pastor to watch them and approve of them.

Many pastors are too big for such creative arts. Dear great pastor, you are not too great for anything in the house of God. Do you not attend your children’s school play and watch your daughter say, “Twinkle, twinkle little star, how I wonder what you are.” Do you not commend her for acting or singing well? Well, consider the church members as the children God has given us to love and to cherish.

Notice the amazing scripture that support this creative arts campaign. The father who welcomed the prodigal son represents our heavenly Father. All the things he did for the prodigal son are the things our heavenly Father does for us. He organised music and dancing for his lost son. Today, God is organising music and dancing in the house of God. God is welcoming back many lost children.

1. Creative arts are on the Father’s heart. Music and dancing is part of the Father’s house and will always be. That is why we have music and dancing.

Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard musick and dancing.

Luke 15:25

2. Creative arts bring in the glory of God. When musicians and singers praise the Lord in unity, the glory of God fills the church.

It came even to pass, AS THE TRUMPETERS AND SINGERS WERE AS ONE, to make one sound TO BE HEARD IN PRAISING AND THANKING THE LORD; and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick, and praised the Lord, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth for ever: that then THE HOUSE WAS FILLED WITH A CLOUD, even the house of the LORD;

2 Chronicles 5:13

3. Creative arts can be done in the presence of the Lord. It is appropriate to play and dance in the presence of the Lord. King David is the best example of creative arts in the Old Testament. He loved singing, he loved dancing and he loved playing before the Lord. Dear friend, it is time to despise all those high-minded, high society people who look down on our liberty in the house of God. Get into creative arts. It will lead to church growth.

And David DANCED BEFORE THE LORD WITH ALL HIS MIGHT; and David was girded with a linen ephod . . .

Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David, and said, How glorious was the king of Israel to day, who uncovered himself to day in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovereth himself! And David said unto Michal, It was before the Lord, which chose me before thy father, and before all his house, to appoint me ruler over the people of the Lord, over Israel: THEREFORE WILL I PLAY BEFORE THE LORD. And I will yet be more vile than thus, and will be base in mine own sight: and of the maidservants which thou hast spoken of, of them shall I be had in honour. Therefore Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto the day of her death.

2 Samuel 6:14, 20-23

In Conclusion

May God give you the wisdom to implement these church growth campaigns in your effort to build a double mega missionary church! In the last days, the mountain of the Lord’s house will be established in the top of the mountains. You are destined to be one of the pastors of a double mega missionary church! Have a heart for soul winning! Have a heart for what Jesus died for! Have a heart to build the church of Jesus Christ. The gates of hell will not prevail against you!





